Company: Samsung Electronics Co.
Ticker: 005930.KS
Filing: 10-K Annual Report
Section: Item 1A - Risk Factors (Climate-Related Excerpts)
Filing Date: 2026-02-23
Source: SEC EDGAR (CIK: 0000805676)
---
In 2025, Park introduced Leadership Pathways, a targeted learning program aligned with specific capabilities and competencies designed to strengthen our culture, deepen connections, and equip leaders with the skills to inspire growth. This year, Learning & Development is building on that momentum with the launch of a Manager Onboarding program - a tailored experience that helps new managers quickly acclimate to their role, lead with confidence, and guide teams to succeed.

The bank regulators also use their authority under the Federal Trade Commission Act to take supervisory or enforcement action with respect to unfair or deceptive acts or practices by banks that may not necessarily fall within the scope of a specific banking or consumer finance law. 
          
Legislative and Regulatory Initiatives
From time to time, various legislative and regulatory initiatives are introduced in the U.S. Congress and state legislatures, as well as by regulatory agencies. Such initiatives may include proposals to expand or contract the powers of bank holding companies and depository institutions or proposals to substantially change the financial institution regulatory system. Such legislation could change banking statutes and the operating environment of Park and Park National Bank in substantial and unpredictable ways. If enacted, such legislation could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand permissible activities or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions and other financial institutions. Park cannot predict whether any such legislation will be enacted, and, if enacted, the effect that such legislation, or any implementing regulations, would have on the financial condition or results of operations of Park. A change in statutes, regulations or regulatory policies applicable to Park or any of Park's subsidiaries could have a material effect on Park's business, financial condition and results of operations. 
Effect of Environmental Regulation
Compliance with federal, state and local provisions regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, has not had a material effect upon the capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position of Park and Park's subsidiaries. Park believes the nature of the operations of Park's subsidiaries has little, if any, environmental impact. As a result, Park, anticipates no material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities for Park's current fiscal year or for the foreseeable future.
Park believes its primary exposure to environmental risk is through the lending activities of Park's subsidiaries. In cases where management believes environmental risk potentially exists, Park’s subsidiaries mitigate their environmental risk exposures by requiring environmental site assessments at the time of loan origination to confirm collateral quality as to commercial real estate parcels posing higher than normal potential for environmental impact, as determined by reference to present and past uses of the subject property and adjacent sites. In addition, environmental assessments are typically required prior to any foreclosure activity involving non-residential real estate collateral.

Negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions, social media and other marketing activities, and the implementation of environmental, social, and governance practices, and from actions taken by governmental regulators and community organizations in response to any of the foregoing. Negative public opinion could adversely affect our ability to attract and keep customers, could expose us to potential litigation or regulatory action, and could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common shares or result in heightened volatility.

We are subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities.

A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, we foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws and evolving regulation may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws and regulations or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws or regulations may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Environmental reviews of real property before initiating foreclosure actions may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
 -23-

Increasing scrutiny and evolving expectations from customers, regulators, investors, and other stakeholders with respect to our environmental, social and governance practices may impose additional costs on us or expose us to new or additional risks.

Financial institutions are facing increasing scrutiny from customers, regulators, investors, and other stakeholders related to their environmental, social and governance ("ESG") practices and disclosure. Investor advocacy groups, investment funds and influential investors are also increasingly focused on these practices, especially as they relate to the environment, health and safety, diversity, labor conditions and human rights. Increased ESG-related compliance costs for us as well as among our third-party suppliers, vendors and various other parties within our supply chain could result in increases to our overall operational costs. Failure to adapt to or comply with regulatory requirements or investor or stakeholder expectations and standards could negatively impact our reputation, ability to do business with certain partners, access to capital, and the price of our Common Shares.