Company: Apple Inc.
Ticker: AAPL
Filing: 10-K Annual Report
Section: Item 1A - Risk Factors (Climate-Related Excerpts)
Filing Date: 2025-10-31
Source: SEC EDGAR (CIK: 0000320193)
---
The Company’s business can be impacted by political events, trade and other international disputes, geopolitical tensions, conflict, terrorism, natural disasters, public health issues, industrial accidents and other business interruptions.
Political events, trade and other international disputes, geopolitical tensions, conflict, terrorism, natural disasters, public health issues, industrial accidents and other business interruptions can have a material adverse effect on the Company and its customers, employees, suppliers, contract manufacturers, logistics providers, distributors, cellular network carriers and other channel partners.
The Company has a large, global business with sales outside the U.S. representing a majority of the Company’s total net sales, and the Company believes that it generally benefits from growth in international trade. A significant majority of the Company’s manufacturing is performed in whole or in part by outsourcing partners located primarily in China mainland, India, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and Vietnam, in addition to sourcing from partners and facilities located in the U.S. Restrictions on international trade, such as tariffs and other controls on imports or exports of goods, technology or data, can materially adversely affect the Company’s business and supply chain. The impact can be particularly significant if these restrictive measures apply to countries and regions where the Company derives a significant portion of its revenues and/or has significant supply chain operations. Restrictive measures can increase the cost or limit the availability of the Company’s products and the components and rare earths and other raw materials that go into them. Restrictive measures can also require the Company to change suppliers, restructure business relationships and operations, refrain from offering and distributing or cease to offer and distribute affected products, services and third-party applications to its customers, and increase the prices of its products and services. Changing the Company’s business and supply chain in accordance with new or changed restrictions on international trade can be expensive, time-consuming and disruptive to the Company’s business and results of operations. Trade and other international disputes can also have an adverse impact on the overall macroeconomic environment and result in shifts and reductions in consumer spending and negative consumer sentiment for the Company’s products and services, all of which can further adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations. Such restrictions can be announced with little or no advance notice, which can create uncertainty, and the Company may not be able to effectively mitigate any or all adverse impacts from such measures. Global supply chains can be highly concentrated, and an escalation of geopolitical tensions or conflict could result in significant disruptions. Beginning in the second quarter of 2025, new tariffs were announced on imports to the U.S. (“U.S. Tariffs”), including additional tariffs on imports from China, India, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, Vietnam and the European Union (“EU”), among others. In response, several countries have imposed, or threatened to impose, reciprocal tariffs on imports from the U.S. and other retaliatory measures. Various modifications to the U.S. Tariffs have been announced and further changes could be made in the future, which may include additional sector-based tariffs or other measures. For example, the U.S. Department of Commerce has initiated an investigation under Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended, into, among other things, imports of semiconductors, semiconductor manufacturing equipment, and their derivative products, including downstream products that contain semiconductors. The ultimate impact remains uncertain and will depend on several factors, including whether additional or incremental U.S. Tariffs or other measures are announced or imposed, to what extent other countries implement tariffs or other retaliatory measures in response, and the overall magnitude and duration of these measures. If disputes and conflicts further escalate, actions by governments in response could be significantly more severe and restrictive.
Many of the Company’s operations, retail stores and facilities, as well as critical business operations of the Company’s suppliers and contract manufacturers, are in locations that are prone to earthquakes and other natural disasters. Global climate change is resulting in certain types of natural disasters and extreme weather occurring more frequently or with more intense effects. In addition, the Company’s and its suppliers’ operations, retail stores and facilities are subject to the risk of interruption by fire, power shortages, nuclear power plant accidents and other industrial accidents, terrorist attacks and other hostile acts, ransomware and other cybersecurity attacks, labor disputes, public health issues and other events beyond the Company’s control.
Such events can make it difficult or impossible for the Company to manufacture and deliver products to its customers, create delays and inefficiencies in the Company’s supply and manufacturing chain, result in slowdowns and outages to the Company’s service offerings, increase the Company’s costs, and negatively impact consumer spending and demand in affected areas.
The Company’s operations are also subject to the risks of industrial accidents at its suppliers and contract manufacturers. While the Company’s suppliers are required to maintain safe working environments and operations, an industrial accident could occur and could result in serious injuries or loss of life, disruption to the Company’s business, and harm to the Company’s reputation. Major public health issues, including pandemics such as the COVID-19 pandemic, have adversely affected, and could in the future materially adversely affect, the Company due to their impact on the global economy and demand for consumer products; the imposition of protective public safety measures, such as stringent employee travel restrictions and limitations on freight services and the movement of products between regions; and disruptions in the Company’s operations, supply chain and sales and distribution channels, resulting in interruptions to the supply of current products and offering of existing services, and delays in production ramps of new products and development of new services.
Apple Inc. | 2025 Form 10-K | 6

The Company’s products and services may be affected from time to time by design and manufacturing defects that could materially adversely affect the Company’s business and result in harm to the Company’s reputation.
The Company offers complex hardware and software products and services that can be affected by design and manufacturing defects. Sophisticated operating system software and applications, such as those offered by the Company, often have issues that can unexpectedly interfere with the intended operation of hardware or software products and services. Defects can also exist in components and products the Company purchases from third parties. Component defects could make the Company’s products unsafe and create a risk of environmental or property damage and personal injury. These risks may increase as the Company’s products are introduced into specialized applications, including health. In addition, the Company’s service offerings can have quality issues and from time to time experience outages, service slowdowns or errors. As a result, from time to time the Company’s services have not performed as anticipated and may not meet customer expectations. The introduction of new and complex technologies, such as artificial intelligence features, can increase these and other safety risks, including exposing users to harmful, inaccurate or other negative content and experiences. The Company may not be able to detect and fix all issues and defects in the hardware, software and services it offers, which can result in widespread technical and performance issues affecting the Company’s products and services. Errors, bugs and vulnerabilities can be exploited by third parties, compromising the safety and security of a user’s device. In addition, the Company can be exposed to product liability claims, recalls, product replacements or modifications, write-offs of inventory, property, plant and equipment or intangible assets, and significant warranty and other expenses, including litigation costs and regulatory fines. Quality problems can adversely affect the experience for users of the Company’s products and services, and result in harm to the Company’s reputation, loss of competitive advantage, poor market acceptance, reduced demand for products and services, delay in new product and service introductions and lost sales.
The Company is exposed to the risk of write-downs on the value of its inventory and other assets, in addition to purchase commitment cancellation risk.
The Company records a write-down for product and component inventories if cost exceeds net realizable value. The Company reviews other assets, including capital assets held at its suppliers’ facilities, inventory prepayments and other long-lived assets, for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate the assets may not be recoverable. Although the Company believes its inventory, capital assets, inventory prepayments and other assets are currently recoverable, the Company may incur write-downs, impairments and other charges given the rapid and unpredictable pace of product obsolescence in the industries in which the Company competes.
The Company orders components for its products and builds inventory in advance of product announcements and shipments. Manufacturing purchase obligations cover the Company’s forecasted component and manufacturing requirements, typically for periods up to 150 days. Because the Company’s markets are volatile, competitive and subject to rapid technology and price changes, there is a risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and order or produce excess or insufficient amounts of components or products, or not fully utilize purchase commitments. The Company accrues necessary cancellation fee reserves for orders of excess products and components.
The Company relies on access to third-party intellectual property, which may not be available to the Company on commercially reasonable terms, or at all.
The Company’s products and services include technology or intellectual property that must be licensed from third parties. In addition, because of technological changes in the industries in which the Company currently competes or in the future may compete, current extensive intellectual property coverage and the rapid rate of new intellectual property rights generation, the Company’s products and services may be alleged to infringe existing intellectual property rights of others. This risk may be exacerbated by the use of new and emerging technologies, including machine learning and artificial intelligence, which can involve, among other things, the acquisition and use of copyrighted materials for training as well as the potential reproduction of copyrighted materials in their outputs. From time to time, the Company has been notified that it may be infringing certain intellectual property rights of third parties. The Company is not always able to obtain all necessary licenses to third-party intellectual property rights on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Failure to obtain the right to use third-party intellectual property, or to use such intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms, can require the Company to modify certain products, services or features or preclude the Company from selling certain products or services and expose the Company to significant licensing costs, all of which can materially adversely affect the Company’s business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition and stock price.
Apple Inc. | 2025 Form 10-K | 9

The outcome of litigation or government investigations is inherently uncertain. If one or more legal matters were resolved against the Company or an indemnified third party in a reporting period for amounts above management’s expectations, the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and stock price for that reporting period could be materially adversely affected. Further, such an outcome can result in significant monetary damages, disgorgement of revenue or profits, remedial corporate measures or injunctive relief against the Company. Adverse resolution of legal matters has from time to time required, and can in the future require, the Company to change its business practices. It can also limit the Company’s ability to enjoin others from using, or to derive value from, its intellectual property rights, and to develop, manufacture, use, import or offer for sale certain products and services, all of which could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition and stock price.
While the Company maintains insurance coverage for certain types of claims, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise.
The Company is subject to complex and changing laws and regulations worldwide, which exposes the Company to potential liabilities, increased costs and other adverse effects on the Company’s business.
The Company’s global operations are subject to complex and changing laws and regulations worldwide on subjects including antitrust; privacy, data security and data localization; online safety; age verification; consumer protection; advertising, sales, billing and e-commerce; financial services and technology; product liability; intellectual property ownership and infringement; digital platforms; machine learning and artificial intelligence; internet, telecommunications and mobile communications; media, television, film and digital content; availability of third-party software applications and services; labor and employment; anticorruption; import, export and trade; foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions; anti–money laundering; foreign ownership and investment; national security; tax; and environmental, health and safety, including electronic waste, recycling, product design and climate change.
Compliance with these laws and regulations is onerous and expensive. New and changing laws, regulations, executive orders, directives, and enforcement priorities can adversely affect the Company’s business by increasing the Company’s costs, limiting the Company’s ability to offer a product, service or feature to customers, imposing changes to the design of the Company’s products and services, impacting customer demand for the Company’s products and services, and requiring changes to the Company’s business or supply chain. New and changing laws, regulations, executive orders, directives, and enforcement priorities can also create uncertainty about how such laws and regulations will be interpreted and applied. If the Company is found to have violated such laws and regulations, it could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition and stock price.
Risks and costs related to new and changing laws, regulations, executive orders, directives, and enforcement priorities increase as the Company’s products and services are introduced into specialized applications, including health and financial services, or as the Company expands the use of technologies, such as machine learning and artificial intelligence features, and must navigate new legal, regulatory and ethical considerations relating to such technologies.
Regulatory changes and other actions that materially adversely affect the Company’s business may be announced with little or no advance notice and the Company may not be able to effectively mitigate all adverse impacts from such measures. For example, the Company is subject to changing regulations relating to the export and import of its products. The Company’s programs, policies and procedures may not be effective in preventing a violation or a claim of a violation. As a result, the Company’s products could be banned, delayed or prohibited from importation, which could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition and stock price.
Varied stakeholder expectations about social and other issues expose the Company to potential liabilities, increased costs, reputational harm, and other adverse effects on the Company’s business.
Various stakeholders, including governments, regulators, investors, employees, customers and others, have differing expectations about a wide range of social and other issues related to the Company’s business. The Company makes statements about its values, including the environmental and societal impact of its business, through various reports, information provided on the Company’s website, and in press statements and other communications. The Company also pursues environmental and other goals and initiatives that involve risks and uncertainties, require investments, and depend in part on third-party performance or data that is outside the Company’s control, and the Company may not be able to fully achieve all of its goals and initiatives. Efforts by the Company to advance its business and values, or achieve its goals and further its initiatives, or to align with stakeholders’ expectations, or comply with evolving, varied and at times conflicting federal, state and international laws, executive orders, regulations and standards, or any failure or perceived failure to do so, can result in adverse reactions by consumers and other stakeholders, including the commencement of legal and regulatory proceedings against the Company, and can materially adversely affect the Company’s business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition and stock price.
Apple Inc. | 2025 Form 10-K | 13