Company: BlackRock, Inc.
Ticker: BLK
Filing: 10-K Annual Report
Section: Item 1A - Risk Factors (Climate-Related Excerpts)
Filing Date: 2024-02-23
Source: SEC EDGAR (CIK: 0001364742)
---
BlackRock prioritizes protecting the rights of its workforce. The Company has implemented policies related to harassment prevention and compliance with equal employment opportunity and overtime regulations. BlackRock is also committed to providing a safe and healthy work environment for its workforce. To do this, it designs global programs, including environmental and occupational health and safety programs, to meet or exceed local requirements. Moreover, BlackRock encourages all of its employees to raise issues of concern and assures employees that they may do so without fear of retaliation.

Policymaking workstreams focused on the financial services sector led by global standard setters, such as the Financial Stability Board (“FSB”) and International Organization of Securities Commissions (“IOSCO”), may lead to or inform new regulations in multiple jurisdictions in which BlackRock operates. Most recently, such workstreams have focused on areas such as products and activities of money market funds (“MMFs”), open-ended funds (“OEFs”) and sustainability regulations.

Environmental, Social and Governance (“ESG”) and Sustainability

ESG and sustainability have been the subject of increased regulatory focus across jurisdictions. The International Sustainability Standards Board (“ISSB”) released its first two disclosure standards in 2023, which may inform national regulators’ approaches. For example, the UK, Singapore, Hong Kong, Taiwan and Australia have already indicated their intention to endorse these standards. In the US, the SEC has proposed a series of rules that would require, among other things: (1) corporate issuers to make substantial climate-related disclosures in periodic reports, including with respect to governance, risk management, business strategy, financial statement metrics and greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions and (2) enhanced ESG disclosures by investment companies and investment advisers in fund and adviser filings, including disclosures on ESG strategies and how ESG factors are considered, and GHG emissions disclosure by certain environmentally focused funds. Furthermore, the SEC has announced plans to propose rules to require enhanced disclosure regarding human capital management and board diversity for public issuers. It has also increased scrutiny of disclosure and compliance issues relating to investment advisers’ and funds’ ESG strategies, policies and procedures. In addition, the US Department of Labor (“DOL”) issued final rules clarifying that Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (“ERISA”) plan fiduciaries can, but are not required to, consider the economic effects of ESG factors for purposes of investing ERISA plan assets and exercising voting rights with respect to plan investments. Moreover, California passed several laws in 2023 that will require companies doing business in California to make certain types of climate-related disclosures, and other states may adopt similar laws.

The EU has enacted numerous regulations on ESG and sustainability, including on sustainability-related disclosures by financial market participants; integration of sustainability considerations into investment and risk management processes of asset managers and other institutional investors; making the advice and financial product distribution process more receptive to end-investor sustainability preferences; and requiring asset managers to report against an EU-wide taxonomy of environmentally sustainable activities and make detailed disclosures relating to ESG characteristics of funds and portfolios. Further regulations include the Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive, which will require enhanced sustainability reporting for EU-based corporate issuers, with phased implementation beginning in 2024 and for a wider group of global companies from 2028. In December 2023, the EU reached provisional agreement on a directive, which if adopted in its current form, would require a wide group of European and global companies to provide transition plans and conduct due diligence on the sustainability of their suppliers. The EU and the UK Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”) are also developing rules and guidelines for the use of ESG or sustainability related terms in fund names, focused on specifying a minimum threshold of assets meeting ESG or sustainable criteria for such funds.

Within the UK, the FCA has proposed UK-specific sustainability regulations, including a sustainable product classification system for funds and enhanced disclosure requirements, which are expected to apply on a staggered basis from July 2024. In addition, His Majesty's Treasury (“HMT”) released a consultation to bring ESG rating providers under regulation by the FCA and will consult on a UK-specific taxonomy of environmentally sustainable activities.

A number of Asia-Pacific jurisdictions are consulting on sustainability reporting obligations aligned with the ISSB standards. Similarly, policymakers in Japan have announced that they are preparing a local version of the ISSB standards. Japan and Singapore have published codes of conduct for ESG data and ratings providers, with Hong Kong considering a similar approach, while India introduced a regulatory framework for ESG ratings providers in July 2023.

BlackRock files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and all amendments to these reports and other information with the SEC. BlackRock makes available free-of-charge, on or through its website at https://www.blackrock.com, the Company’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and all amendments to those filings, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The Company also makes available on its website the charters for the Audit Committee, Management Development and Compensation Committee, Nominating, Governance and Sustainability Committee and Risk Committee of the Board of Directors, its Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, its Code of Ethics for Chief Executive and Senior Financial Officers and its Corporate Governance Guidelines. Further, BlackRock will provide, without charge, upon written request, a copy of the Company’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and all amendments to those filings as well as the committee charters, its Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, its Code of Ethics for Chief Executive and Senior Financial Officers and its Corporate Governance Guidelines. Requests for copies should be addressed to Investor Relations, BlackRock, Inc., 50 Hudson Yards, New York, New York 10001. Reports, proxy statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, including BlackRock’s filings, are also available to the public from the SEC’s website at https://www.sec.gov.

BlackRock’s financial performance depends, in part, on its ability to react to changes in the asset management industry, respond to evolving client demands and develop, market and manage new investment products and services. The development and introduction of new products and services, including the creation of increasingly customizable products, requires continued innovative effort on the part of BlackRock and may require significant time and resources as well as ongoing support and investment. Substantial risk and uncertainties are associated with the introduction of new products and services, including the implementation of new and appropriate operational controls and procedures, shifting client and market preferences, the introduction of competing products or services, constraints on BlackRock’s ability to manage growth within client mandates, compliance with regulatory and disclosure requirements and IP-related lawsuits or claims, which may not be fully evident or identified at such time. A growing number of BlackRock’s products and services also depend on data provided by third parties as analytical inputs and are subject to additional risks, including with respect to data quality, cost, availability and provider relationships. Data sets for certain developing analytics, such as those in the sustainability space, continue to evolve and difficulties approximating gaps in the data, sourcing data from reliable sources, or validating the data could adversely impact the accuracy and effectiveness of such analytics. There can be no assurance that BlackRock will be able to innovate effectively in order to develop new products or services that address the needs of its clients on the timeline they require. Any failure to successfully develop new products and services, or effectively manage associated operational risks, could harm BlackRock’s reputation and expose the Company to additional costs, which may cause its AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.

Geopolitical risks, including those arising from trade tension and/or the imposition of trade tariffs, terrorist activity or acts of civil or international hostility, could have an adverse impact on BlackRock. For instance, the Ukraine-Russia and Israel-Hamas wars and potential escalation have and may continue to result in geopolitical instability and adversely affect the global economy, supply chains, specific markets and operations. Strategic competition between the US and China and resulting tensions and heightened levels of political polarization have also contributed to uncertainty in the geopolitical and regulatory landscapes. Similarly, other events outside of BlackRock’s control, including natural disasters, climate-related events, pandemics or health crises may arise from time to time and be accompanied by governmental actions that may increase international tension or impact the US or global economy in ways that are uncertain. Any such events and responses, including regulatory developments, may cause significant volatility and declines in the global markets, disproportionate impacts to certain industries or sectors, disruptions to commerce (including to economic activity, travel and supply chains), loss of life and property damage, and may adversely affect the global economy or capital markets, as well as the Company’s products, operations, clients, vendors and employees, which may cause BlackRock’s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline. BlackRock’s exposure to geopolitical risks may be heightened to the extent such risks arise in countries in which BlackRock currently operates or seeks to expand its presence.

Climate-related risks could adversely affect BlackRock’s business, products, operations and clients, which may cause BlackRock’s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.

BlackRock’s business and those of its clients could be impacted by climate-related risks. Climate-related risks may impact BlackRock through changes in the physical climate or from the process of transitioning to a low-carbon economy. Climate-related physical risks arise from the direct impacts of a changing climate in the short- and long-term. Such risks may include the risks of extreme weather events and changes in temperature, which may damage infrastructure and facilities, including BlackRock’s physical assets, as well as disrupt connectivity or supply chains. Climate-related transition risks arise from exposure to the transition to a low-carbon economy through policy, regulatory, technology and market changes. For instance, new or divergent climate regulations or guidance, as well as differing perspectives of stakeholders regarding climate impacts, have affected and may continue to affect BlackRock’s business activities and reputation, increase scrutiny and complicate compliance requirements, which could increase the Company’s costs.

Climate-related physical and transition risks could also impact BlackRock’s business both directly and indirectly through adverse impacts to its clients’ investments, including as a result of declines in asset values, changes in client preferences, increased regulatory and compliance costs and significant business disruptions. Any of these risks may cause the Company’s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.

•climate-related risks, including greater frequency or intensity of adverse weather and natural disasters;

•exposure to stringent and complex non-US, federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, including those related to financial crime, permits, government contracting, conservation, exploration and production, tenancy, occupational health and safety, foreign investment and environmental protection;

•environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, product and waste spills, pipeline and tank ruptures, and unauthorized discharges of products, wastes and other pollutants;

BlackRock depends on a number of key third-party providers for various fund administration, accounting, custody, market and environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) data, market indices, insurance, technology and AI, cloud hosting and transfer agent roles and other distribution and operational needs. Further, BlackRock relies upon a relatively concentrated group of third-party index providers to deliver services that are integral to its clients’ investment decisions. The index provider industry is characterized by large vendors and the use of long-term contracts remains the market standard. This industry structure may limit BlackRock’s ability to renegotiate its index provider contracts on favorable terms or at all. While BlackRock performs focused diligence on its vendors in an effort to ensure they operate in accordance with expectations, to the extent any significant deficiencies are uncovered, there may be few, or no, alternative vendors available. In addition, BlackRock’s operations and processes rely on commercially available data provided by third parties as well as providers of services, including technology services, and operating errors, process delays and failures or failures to comply with data usage requirements with respect to these service providers may adversely impact BlackRock. Data providers commonly disclaim the accuracy and completeness of data and BlackRock does not have the ability to validate or verify the accuracy and completeness of commercially sourced datasets. Moreover, in situations where BlackRock has limited access to alternative vendors, or where the nature of BlackRock’s arrangement with a vendor requires a long term-commitment, BlackRock may be dependent on such vendor for continuous operational reliability and may be unable to avoid incurring costs if such vendor introduces required upgrades to its services.

Policymaking workstreams focused on the financial services sector led by global standard setters, such as the Financial Stability Board (“FSB”) and International Organization of Securities Commissions (“IOSCO”), may lead to or inform new regulations in multiple jurisdictions in which BlackRock operates. Such workstreams have focused on areas such as money market funds (“MMFs”), open-ended funds (“OEFs”) and sustainability regulations. BlackRock is, and may become, subject to increasing regulation in these areas, see Item 1, Business – Regulation, including: