Company: Chevron Corporation
Ticker: CVX
Filing: 10-K Annual Report
Section: Item 1A - Risk Factors (Climate-Related Excerpts)
Filing Date: 2026-02-24
Source: SEC EDGAR (CIK: 0000093410)
---
Item 1A. Risk Factors for further discussion of government action with respect to greenhouse gas and climate change and the associated risks to Chevron’s business. Refer to Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations in Business Environment and Outlook on pages 35 through 37 for further discussion of climate change related trends and uncertainties. 
Refer to Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations on page 55 for additional information on environmental matters and their impact on Chevron, and on the company’s 2025 environmental expenditures. Refer to page 54 and Note 24 Other Contingencies and Commitments for a discussion of environmental remediation provisions and year-end reserves.

BUSINESS AND OPERATIONAL RISK FACTORS 
Chevron is exposed to the effects of changing commodity prices Chevron is primarily in a commodities business that has a history of price volatility. The most significant factor that affects the company’s results of operations are the prices of crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids, which can be influenced by general economic conditions and level of economic growth, including low or negative growth; industry production and inventory levels; technology advancements, including those in pursuit of a lower carbon economy; production quotas or other actions that might be imposed by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries or other producers; weather-related damage and disruptions due to other natural or human causes beyond our control; competing fuel prices; geopolitical risks; the pace of energy transition; customer and 
21

consumer preferences and the use of substitutes; and governmental regulations, policies and other actions regarding the development of oil and gas reserves, as well as greenhouse gas emissions and climate change. Chevron evaluates the risk of changing commodity prices as a core part of its business planning process. An investment in the company carries significant exposure to fluctuations in global prices of crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids.
Extended periods of low prices or demand for crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids have had, and in the future can have, a material adverse impact on the company’s results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Among other things, the company’s upstream earnings, cash flows, and capital expenditure programs could be negatively affected, as could its production and proved reserves. Upstream assets may also become impaired. Downstream earnings could be negatively affected because they depend upon the supply and demand for refined products and the associated margins on refined product sales. A significant or sustained decline in liquidity could adversely affect the company’s credit ratings, potentially increase financing costs and reduce access to capital markets. The company may be unable to realize anticipated cost savings, expenditure reductions and asset sales that are intended to compensate for such downturns, and such downturns may also slow the pace and scale at which we are able to invest in our business, including our New Energies businesses. In some cases, transferred liabilities, including for decommissioning of previously divested assets, have returned and may continue to return to the company when an acquirer of those assets subsequently defaults on the assumed transferred liabilities (e.g., bankruptcy). In addition, extended periods of low commodity prices can have a material adverse impact on the results of operations, financial condition and liquidity of the company’s suppliers, vendors, partners and equity affiliates upon which the company’s own results of operations and financial condition depend.
The scope of Chevron’s business will decline if the company does not successfully develop resources The company is in an extractive business; therefore, if it is not successful in replacing the crude oil and natural gas it produces with good prospects for future organic opportunities or through acquisitions, exploration or technology, the company’s business will decline. Creating and maintaining an inventory of economic projects depends on many factors, including obtaining and renewing rights to explore, develop and produce hydrocarbons; drilling success; reservoir optimization; technology advancements; ability to bring long-lead-time, capital-intensive projects to completion on budget and on schedule; partner alignment, including strategic support; and efficient and profitable operation of mature properties. 
The company’s operations could be disrupted by natural or human causes beyond its control Chevron operates in both urban areas and remote and sometimes inhospitable regions. The company’s operations are therefore subject to disruption from natural or human causes beyond its control, including risks from hurricanes, severe storms, floods, heat waves, and other forms of severe weather; wildfires; ambient temperature increases; sea level rise; war or other military conflicts such as the conflict between Russia and Ukraine and in the Middle East; accidents; civil unrest; political events such as current geopolitical tensions in Venezuela; fires; earthquakes; system failures; cyber threats; terrorist acts; and epidemic or pandemic diseases, some of which may be impacted by climate change and any of which could result in suspension of operations or harm to people or the natural environment.
Chevron’s risk management systems are designed to assess potential physical and other risks to its operations and assets and to plan for their resiliency. While capital investment reviews and decisions incorporate potential ranges of physical risks such as storm severity and frequency, sea level rise, air and water temperature, precipitation, fresh water access, wind speed, and earthquake severity, among other factors, it is difficult to predict with certainty the timing, frequency or severity of such events, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations or financial condition. 
Cyberattacks and events affecting Chevron’s operational technology networks or other digital infrastructure could have a material adverse impact on the company’s business and results of operations There are numerous and evolving risks to Chevron’s cybersecurity and privacy from cyber threat actors, including criminal hackers, state-sponsored intrusions, industrial espionage and employee malfeasance. These cyber threat actors, whether internal or external to Chevron, are becoming more sophisticated and coordinated in their attempts to access the company’s information technology (IT) systems and data, including the IT systems of cloud providers and other third parties with whom the company conducts business through, without limitation, malicious software; data breaches by employees, insiders or others with authorized access; cyber or phishing-attacks; ransomware; attempts to gain unauthorized access to our data and systems; and other electronic security breaches. The cyber risk landscape changes over time due to a variety of internal and external factors, including during organizational changes, relocating work to international geographies, or other corporate transactions; political tensions; war or other military conflicts; or civil unrest. Although Chevron devotes significant resources to prevent unwanted intrusions and to protect its systems and data, whether such data is housed internally or by external third parties, the company has experienced and will continue to experience cyber incidents of varying degrees in the conduct of its 
22

business. Cyber threat actors could compromise the company’s operational technology networks or other critical systems and infrastructure, resulting in disruptions to its business operations, injury to people, harm to the environment or its assets, disruptions in access to its financial reporting systems, or loss, misuse or corruption of its critical data and proprietary information, including without limitation its intellectual property and business information and that of its employees, customers, partners and other third parties. Any of the foregoing can be exacerbated by a delay or failure to detect a cyber incident or the full extent of such incident. Further, the company is increasingly experiencing cyber incidents related to its third-party vendors. Some third-party vendors house the company’s critical data and proprietary information on their IT systems, including the cloud; others have access to Chevron’s IT systems or provide software through which threat actors could gain access or introduce malware to Chevron’s IT systems. Our use of third-party software, services and support may also result in unintentional, non-malicious events or outages that affect our ability to operate critical business systems. Regardless of the precise method or form, events affecting our networks or digital infrastructure could result in significant financial losses, legal or regulatory violations, reputational harm, and legal liability and could ultimately have a material adverse effect on the company’s business and results of operations.
Chevron is incorporating artificial intelligence technologies into its processes and these technologies may present business, compliance, and reputational risks The company is increasingly utilizing artificial intelligence (“AI”) technologies in certain of its processes, information systems and various operations, and expects that AI will assume a more critical role in its operations over time. The use of AI technologies introduces certain risks to the company, including potential dependency on biased or incorrect AI outputs, new or enhanced regulatory requirements, litigation, privacy risks, cybersecurity risks, reputational harm, liability or other adverse consequences, any of which could adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, other unforeseen risks stemming from either the company’s or third-party service providers’ use and development of AI tools and technologies, or the company’s inability to adopt such technologies at the same pace as its competitors, may arise in the future that could adversely affect its business and results of operations. 
The company’s operations have inherent risks and hazards that require significant and continuous oversight Chevron’s results depend on its ability to identify and mitigate the risks and hazards inherent to operating in the energy industry. The company seeks to minimize these operational risks by carefully designing and building its facilities and conducting its operations in a safe and reliable manner. However, failure to manage these risks effectively could impair our ability to operate and result in unexpected incidents, including releases, explosions or mechanical failures resulting in personal injury, loss of life, environmental damage, loss of revenues, legal liability and/or disruption to operations. Chevron has implemented and maintains a system of corporate policies, standards, processes and systems, behaviors and compliance mechanisms to manage safety, health, environmental, reliability and efficiency risks; to verify compliance with applicable laws and policies; and to respond to and learn from unexpected incidents. In certain situations where Chevron is not the operator, the company may have limited influence and control over third parties, which may limit its ability to manage and control such risks. 
The company does not insure against all potential losses, which could result in significant financial exposure The company does not have commercial insurance or third-party indemnities to fully cover all operational risks or potential liability in the event of a significant incident or series of incidents causing catastrophic loss. As a result, the company is, to a substantial extent, self-insured for such events. The company relies on existing liquidity, financial resources and borrowing capacity to meet short-term obligations that would arise from such an event or series of events. The occurrence of a significant incident, series of events, or unforeseen liability for which the company is self-insured, not fully insured or for which insurance recovery is significantly delayed could have a material adverse effect on the company’s results of operations or financial condition. 
The acquisition of Hess may cause Chevron’s financial results to differ from the company’s expectations or the expectations of the investment community, the company may not achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, and the acquisition may disrupt the company’s current plans or operations The success of the acquisition of Hess, which closed in July 2025, will depend, in part, on Chevron’s ability to realize the anticipated benefits, including the anticipated run-rate cost synergies, estimated five-year production and free cash flow growth rates, and anticipated higher returns to shareholders over the long-term. Failure to realize anticipated synergies in the expected timeframe, operational challenges, the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns, and unforeseen expenses associated with the acquisition may have an adverse impact on our financial results.

LEGAL, REGULATORY AND ESG-RELATED RISK FACTORS
Chevron’s business subjects the company to liability risks from litigation or government action The company produces, transports, refines and markets potentially hazardous materials, and it purchases, handles and disposes of other potentially hazardous materials in the course of its business. Chevron’s operations also produce byproducts, which may be considered pollutants. Often these operations are conducted through joint ventures over which the company may have limited influence and control. Any of these activities could result in liability or significant delays in operations arising from private litigation or government action. For example, liability or delays could result from an accidental, unlawful discharge or from new conclusions about the effects of the company’s current or former operations or products on human health or the environment. It is also possible that such liability could be imposed without regard to the company’s causation of or contribution to the asserted damage, or to other mitigating factors. 
For information concerning some of the litigation in which the company is involved, see Note 16 Litigation.
Political instability and significant changes in the legal and regulatory environment could harm Chevron’s business The company’s operations, particularly exploration and production, can be affected by changing political, regulatory and economic environments in the various countries in which it operates. As has occurred in the past, actions could be taken by governments to increase public ownership of the company’s partially or wholly owned businesses, to force contract renegotiations, or to impose additional taxes, tariffs, royalties, fees, penalties or other costs. In a number of locations, including the European Union, governments have proposed or imposed direct and indirect obligations with respect to the company’s activities, trade, taxes, and public disclosures, as well as currency exchange controls that might harm the company’s competitiveness, return on investments, or relations with other governments or third parties. In other countries, political conditions have existed that may threaten the safety of employees and the company’s continued presence in those countries, and internal unrest, acts of violence or strained relations between a government and the company or other governments may adversely affect the company’s operations. Those developments have, at times, significantly affected the company’s operations and results and are carefully considered by management when evaluating the level of current and future activity in such countries. Further, Chevron is required to comply with sanctions and other trade laws and regulations of the United States and other jurisdictions where we operate, such as sanctions imposed in Venezuela and Russia, which, depending upon their scope, could adversely impact the company’s operations and financial results in these countries. In addition, litigation or changes in national, state or local environmental regulations or laws, including those designed to stop or impede the development or production of oil and gas, such as those related to the use of hydraulic fracturing or bans on drilling, or any law or regulation that impacts the demand for our products, could adversely affect the company’s current or anticipated future operations and profitability. 
Legislative or regulatory changes in tax laws may expose Chevron to additional tax liabilities Changes in tax laws and regulations around the world are regularly enacted due to political or economic factors beyond the company’s control. Chevron’s taxes in the jurisdictions where the company conducts business activities have been and may be adversely affected by changes in tax laws or regulations, including but not limited to, substantive changes in, reductions in, or the repeal or expiration of, tax incentives. Furthermore, Chevron’s tax returns are subject to audit by taxing authorities around the world. There is no assurance that taxing authorities or courts will agree with the positions that Chevron has reflected on the company’s tax returns, in which case interest and penalties could be imposed that may have a material adverse effect on the company’s results of operations or financial condition. 
During periods of high profitability for certain companies or industries, there are often calls for increased taxes on profits, often called “windfall profit” taxes. Governments in various jurisdictions, including California and Australia, have announced, proposed, or implemented windfall profit taxes for companies operating in the energy and oil and gas sectors. Such taxes may be imposed on us or may be increased in the future in these or other jurisdictions. The imposition of, or increase in, such windfall profit taxes could adversely affect the company’s current or anticipated future operations and profitability. 
24