Company: Alphabet Inc.
Ticker: GOOGL
Filing: 10-K Annual Report
Section: Item 1A - Risk Factors (Climate-Related Excerpts)
Filing Date: 2026-02-05
Source: SEC EDGAR (CIK: 0001652044)
---
Government Regulation
We are subject to numerous United States (US) federal, state, and local, as well as foreign laws, and regulations covering a wide variety of subjects, and the scope of this coverage continues to broaden with continuing new legal and regulatory developments in the US and internationally. Like other companies in the technology industry, we face increasingly heightened scrutiny from both US and foreign governments with respect to our compliance with laws and regulations. Many of these laws and regulations are evolving and their applicability and scope, as interpreted by the courts, remain uncertain. Particularly with regard to AI; competition; consumer protection; content moderation, including access restrictions for minors; data privacy and security; intellectual property; news publications; and sustainability and other social matters, we have seen an increase in new and evolving laws and regulations, as well as related enforcement actions and investigations, being proposed and implemented in recent years by legislative and regulatory bodies around the world. As we have seen in recent years, different laws and regulations on the same topic may not always have the same requirements (and sometimes may seem to have conflicting requirements), and even when requirements overlap, the rules are not always consistently implemented, interpreted, and enforced from jurisdiction to jurisdiction.
Our compliance with these laws and regulations may be onerous and could, individually or in the aggregate, increase our cost of doing business, make our products and services less useful, limit our ability to pursue certain business practices or offer certain products and services (either in certain geographies or at all), cause us to change our business models and operations, affect our competitive position relative to our peers, or otherwise harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results.
For additional information about government regulation applicable to our business, see Item 1A Risk Factors; Trends in Our Business and Financial Effect in Part II, Item 7; and Legal Matters in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
7.

new and innovative products and services that better serve the needs of our users, advertisers, customers, content providers, and other partners. Our brands have been, and may in the future be, harmed by a number of factors, including, among others, reputational issues, third-party content shared on our platforms, data privacy and security issues and developments, issues in delivering age-appropriate experiences to minors, and product or technical performance failures. For example, if we fail to respond appropriately to the sharing of misinformation or objectionable content on our services or products or objectionable practices by advertisers, or otherwise to adequately address user concerns, our users may lose confidence in our brands. Furthermore, failure to maintain and enhance our brands could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. Our success will depend largely on our ability to remain a technology leader and continue to provide high-quality, trustworthy, innovative products and services that are truly useful and play a valuable role in a range of settings. 
We face a number of manufacturing and supply chain risks that could affect our ability to supply our products and services and harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. 
We rely on contract manufacturers to manufacture or assemble our devices as well as servers and networking equipment used in our technical infrastructure, certain components of which we may supply. We also rely on third parties to supply components and distribute our products and services. Our business could be harmed if we are not able to engage these companies with the necessary capabilities or capacity on reasonable terms, or if those we engage fail to meet their obligations (whether due to financial difficulties or other reasons), or make adverse changes in the pricing or other material terms of our arrangements with them. 
We have experienced and may in the future experience supply shortages, price increases, quality issues, or longer lead times that could harm our operations, driven by raw material or component availability, manufacturing capacity, labor shortages, industry allocations, logistics capacity, inflation, foreign currency exchange rates, tariffs, sanctions and export controls, trade disputes and barriers, forced labor concerns, sourcing requirements, geopolitical tensions, armed conflicts, natural disasters or pandemics, the effects of climate change, power and transmission availability, and significant changes in the financial or business condition of our suppliers. Some of the components we use in our technical infrastructure and our devices are available from only one or limited sources, and we may not be able to find replacement vendors on favorable terms in the event of a supply chain disruption. A significant supply interruption that affects us or our vendors could delay critical data center or network infrastructure upgrades or expansions and delay consumer product availability. 
Our ability to scale our technical infrastructure is increasingly constrained by the availability of power, water, and land. For example, energy supply is constrained globally due to the significant increase in demand for and limited availability of energy to power AI compute. Securing this capacity involves entering into complex, long-lead-time arrangements. Additionally, manufacturing and supply of servers and network equipment for our technical infrastructure, particularly for specialized AI chips, is limited to a small number of qualified suppliers. Extended or unforeseen disruptions at these suppliers could impact our ability to meet customer demand. Failure to secure sufficient capacity in a timely manner would limit our ability to train models and serve Cloud customers.
We may enter into long-term contracts for materials and products that commit us to significant terms and conditions. We may face costs for materials and products that are not consumed due to market demand, technological change, excess or obsolete inventory, changed consumer preferences, quality, product recalls, and warranty issues. Certain of our competitors may negotiate more favorable contractual terms based on volume and other commitments that may provide them with competitive advantages and may affect our supply. For example, industry supply capacity for AI accelerators, including GPUs as well as our custom-built TPUs, is highly competitive and rapidly evolving. If we are unable to negotiate favorable contractual terms or our competitors claim the supply or capacity first, we may face increased costs and supply constraints, which could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results.
Our devices have had, and in the future may have, quality issues resulting from design, manufacturing, or operations. Sometimes, these issues may be caused by components we purchase from other manufacturers or suppliers. In addition, quality issues with equipment used in our technical infrastructure could constrain our capacity to support the delivery and continued development of our products and services. If the quality of our products and services does not meet expectations, we lack the capacity to deliver them, or our products or services are defective or require a corrective action or recall, it could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. 
We require our suppliers and business partners to comply with laws and, where applicable, our company policies and practices, such as the Google Supplier Code of Conduct, regarding workplace and employment practices, data security, environmental compliance, and intellectual property licensing, but we do not control them or their practices. Violations of law or unethical business practices could result in supply chain disruptions, canceled orders, harm to key relationships, and damage to our reputation. Their failure to procure necessary license rights to intellectual property could affect our ability to sell our products or services and expose us to litigation or financial claims. 
12.

Interruption to, interference with, or failure of our complex information technology and communications systems could hurt our ability to effectively provide our products and services, which could harm our reputation, financial condition, and operating results. 
The availability of our products and services and fulfillment of our customer contracts depend on the continuing operation of our information technology and communications systems. Our systems are vulnerable to damage, interference, or interruption from modifications or upgrades, terrorist attacks, state-sponsored attacks, natural disasters or pandemics, geopolitical tensions or armed conflicts, export controls and sanctions, tariffs and non-tariff trade barriers, the effects of climate change, power and transmission availability challenges, utility outages, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, software bugs, cyber attacks, supply-chain attacks, computer denial of service attacks, phishing schemes, or other attempts to harm or access our systems. Some of our data centers are located in areas with a high risk of major earthquakes or other natural disasters. Our data centers are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, and intentional acts of vandalism, and, in some cases, to potential disruptions resulting from problems experienced by facility operators or disruptions as a result of geopolitical tensions and conflicts happening in the area. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. The occurrence of a natural disaster or pandemic, closure of a facility, or other unanticipated problems affecting our data centers could result in lengthy interruptions in our service. In addition, our products and services are highly technical and complex and have contained in the past, and may contain in the future, errors or vulnerabilities, which could result in interruptions in or failure of our services or systems. Any of these incidents could impede or prevent us from effectively offering products and providing services, which could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. 
Our international operations expose us to additional risks that could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results.
Our international operations are significant to our revenues and net income, and we plan to continue growing internationally. International revenues accounted for approximately 52% of consolidated revenues in 2025. In addition to risks described elsewhere in this section, our international operations expose us to other risks, including:
•restrictions on foreign ownership and investments, and stringent foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in countries outside the US;
•sanctions, tariffs, import and export controls, other market access barriers, political unrest, geopolitical tensions, changes in regimes, or armed conflict (such as ongoing conflicts in the Middle East and Ukraine), any of which may affect our business continuity, increase our operating costs, limit demand for our products and services, limit our ability to source components or final products, or prevent or impede us from operating in certain jurisdictions, complying with local laws, or offering products or services;
•longer payment cycles in some countries, increased credit risk, and higher levels of payment fraud;
•an evolving foreign policy landscape that could harm our revenues and could subject us to litigation, new regulatory costs and challenges (including new customer requirements), uncertainty regarding regulatory outcomes, and other liabilities under local laws that may not offer due process or clear legal precedent;
•anti-corruption laws, such as the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and other local laws prohibiting certain payments to government officials, violations of which could result in civil and criminal penalties; and
•different employee/employer relationships; different labor laws, regulations, and labor practices; and other challenges caused by distance, language, local expertise, and cultural differences, increasing the complexity of doing business in multiple jurisdictions.
Because we conduct business in currencies other than US dollars but report our financial results in US dollars, we have faced, and will continue to face, exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Although we hedge a portion of our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations in exchange rates between the US dollar and foreign currencies have and may in the future adversely affect our revenues and earnings. Hedging programs are also inherently risky and could expose us to additional risks that could harm our financial condition and operating results. 
Disruptions in our ability to access future financing or manage our indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to execute our strategy and harm our financial condition.
We may from time to time access capital markets for debt or seek to enter into other forms of financing, such as leases. Any difficulty in accessing capital markets, entering into other forms of financing on favorable terms, or managing our existing indebtedness could increase our costs of financing and restrict our ability to invest in our business. Furthermore, the combination of our current and any future indebtedness, including obligations arising under 
13.

•Data privacy, collection, processing, and portability: Laws and regulations further restricting the collection, processing, or sharing of user or advertising-related data, including privacy and data protection laws; laws affecting the processing of children's data (as discussed further below), data breach notification laws; laws limiting data transfers (including data localization laws); laws limiting use of data for AI training; and laws requiring data portability. 
•Copyright and other intellectual property: Copyright and related laws, including the EU Directive on Copyright in the Digital Single Market and European Economic Area transpositions, which have introduced new licensing regimes, increase liability with respect to content uploaded by users or linked to from our platforms, or create property rights in news publications that could require payments to news agencies and publishers, which may result in other regulatory actions. The scope of the text and data mining exception is being challenged before courts in the EU, which could harm some aspects of our business. 
•Content moderation: Various laws covering content moderation and removal, and related disclosure obligations, such as the EU's Digital Services Act, Florida's Senate Bill 7072 and Texas' House Bill 20, and laws and proposed legislation in Singapore, Australia, and the United Kingdom (UK) that impose penalties for failure to remove certain types of content or require disclosure of information about the operation of our services and algorithms, which may make it harder for services like Google Search and YouTube to detect and limit low-quality, deceptive, or harmful content, or, on the other hand, may impinge on the rights of free expression and access to content. Additionally, new regulations apply to online child safety, including access and content restrictions as well as other limitations for minors, which may also conflict with rights of free expression and access to information. These regulations could result in our having to modify our products and services and monitor minors' experiences on our products and services.
•Consumer protection: Consumer protection laws, including the EU's New Deal for Consumers, which could result in monetary penalties and create a range of new compliance obligations.
In addition, the applicability and scope of these and other laws and regulations, as interpreted by courts, regulators, or administrative bodies, remain uncertain and could be interpreted in ways that harm our business. For example, we rely on statutory safe harbors, like those set forth in the Digital Millennium Copyright Act and Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act in the US and the Digital Services Act in Europe, to protect against liability for various linking, caching, ranking, recommending, and hosting activities. Legislation or court rulings affecting these safe harbors may harm us and may impose significant operational challenges. There are legislative proposals and pending litigation in the US, EU, and around the world that could diminish or eliminate safe harbor protection for websites and online platforms. Our development, use, and commercialization of AI products and services (including our implementation of AI in our offerings and internal systems) could subject us to regulatory action and legal liability, including under specific legislation regulating AI, as well as new applications of existing data protection, cybersecurity, privacy, intellectual property, and other laws.
Further, we are subject to evolving laws, regulations, policies, and international accords relating to matters beyond our core products and services, including environmental sustainability, climate change, human capital, and employment matters. In response, we have implemented robust programs and initiatives and adopted reporting frameworks and principles that may require considerable investments. For instance, AI's energy and water demands have made efforts to reduce our emissions more complex and challenging across every level. We cannot guarantee that our initiatives will be fully realized on the timelines we expect or at all, and projects that are completed as planned may not achieve the results we anticipate.
We are and may continue to be subject to claims, lawsuits, regulatory and government inquiries and investigations, enforcement actions, consent orders, and other forms of regulatory scrutiny and legal liability, including competition matters, that could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results.
We are subject to claims, lawsuits, regulatory and government inquiries and investigations, other proceedings, and orders involving competition, intellectual property, data privacy and security, tax and related compliance, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by our users, goods and services offered by advertisers or publishers using our platforms, design of our products and services, personal injury and other tort and nuisance theories, consumer protection claims, including how we moderate content on our platforms, AI, and other matters.
The US Department of Justice (DOJ), various states, and other plaintiffs have filed, and may continue to file in the future, several antitrust lawsuits about aspects of our business, including our advertising technologies and practices, the operation and distribution of Google Search, and the operation and distribution of Android operating system and Play Store. If we are unsuccessful in these lawsuits, we could face significant expenses to implement the remedies, and such costs and alterations could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results.
18.