Company: Johnson & Johnson
Ticker: JNJ
Filing: 10-K Annual Report
Section: Item 1A - Risk Factors (Climate-Related Excerpts)
Filing Date: 2026-02-11
Source: SEC EDGAR (CIK: 0000200406)
---
Climate change or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change may negatively affect our business and results of operations.
Climate change resulting from increased concentrations of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere could present risks to our operations, including an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. Natural disasters and extreme weather conditions, such as a hurricane, tornado, earthquake, wildfire or flooding, may pose physical risks to our facilities and disrupt the operation of our supply chain. The impacts of the changing climate on water resources may result in water scarcity, limiting our ability to access sufficient high-quality water in certain locations, which may increase operational costs. 
Concern over climate change may also result in new or additional legal or regulatory requirements designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and/or mitigate the effects of climate change on the environment. If such laws or regulations are more stringent than current legal or regulatory obligations, we may experience disruption in, or an increase in the costs associated with sourcing, manufacturing and distribution of our products, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Further, the impacts of climate change have an influence on customer preferences, and failure to provide climate-friendly products could potentially result in loss of market share.
An information security incident, including a cybersecurity breach, could have a negative impact on the Company’s business or reputation.
To meet business objectives, the Company relies on both internal information technology (IT) systems and networks, and those of third parties and their vendors, to process and store sensitive data (including confidential research, business plans, financial information, intellectual property, and personal data that may be subject to legal protection) to ensure the continuity of the Company’s supply chain and operations, and as part of many of the products we deliver to customers. The extensive range of information security and cybersecurity threats, which affect companies globally, pose a persistent risk to the security and availability of these systems and networks, including to customer products that are connected to or rely on such systems and networks, and the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the Company’s sensitive data. The Company assesses these threats, responds to attacks and breaches that it has experienced, and makes investments to increase internal protection, detection, and response capabilities, as well as ensure the Company’s third-party providers have required capabilities and controls, to address this risk. Because of the frequently changing attack techniques, along with the increased volume and sophistication of the attacks and increasing use and reliance on third parties, there is the potential for the Company to be adversely impacted. This impact could result in reputational, competitive, operational or other business harm as well as financial costs and regulatory action. The increasing use of AI and other emerging technology could also increase these risks. The Company maintains cybersecurity insurance in the event of an information security or cyber incident; however, the coverage may not be sufficient to cover all financial, legal, business or reputational losses.
As a result of increased global tensions, the Company expects there will continue to be, an increased risk of information security or cybersecurity incidents, including cyberattacks perpetrated by adversaries of countries where the Company maintains operations. Given the potential sophistication of these attacks, the Company may not be able to address the threat of information security or cybersecurity incidents proactively or implement adequate preventative measures and we may not be able to detect and address any such disruption or security breach promptly, or at all, which could adversely affect customers that use our products, our business, results of operations or financial condition. Moreover, these threats could also impact our third-party partners resulting in compromise of the Company's IT systems, networks and data which could negatively affect the Company.
A breach of privacy laws or unauthorized access, loss or misuse of personal data could have a negative impact on the Company’s business or reputation.
The Company is subject to privacy and data protection laws and regulations across the globe that impose broad compliance obligations on the collection, possession, use, storage, access, disclosure, transfer, deletion and protection of personal data. Breach of the requirements of these laws and regulations could result in substantial fines, penalties, governmental actions, private right of actions, including class actions, and damage to our reputation and business. New privacy laws are expected globally, together with greater privacy enforcement by governmental authorities globally, particularly on data localization requirements and data transfers including international data flows. The Company has established privacy compliance programs and controls with which our businesses worldwide are required to comply. However, with many technology and data-driven initiatives evolving across the Company, involving multiple vendors and third parties, there are threats that could impact our business operations and research activities, including potential risks of unauthorized access and loss of personal data as well as legislative actions imposing limitations and controls on the use and sharing of personal data as well as on cross border data flows.