Company: Microsoft Corporation
Ticker: MSFT
Filing: 10-K Annual Report
Section: Item 1A - Risk Factors (Climate-Related Excerpts)
Filing Date: 2025-07-30
Source: SEC EDGAR (CIK: 0000789019)
---
Our future growth depends on our ability to transcend current product category definitions, business models, and sales motions.
Commitment to Sustainability
Microsoft is committed to sustainability and our approach to addressing climate change starts with the sustainability of our own business. In 2020, we announced goals to become a carbon negative, water positive, and zero waste company by 2030. Since announcing these goals, we have made meaningful progress while having seen major changes in both the technology sector and in our understanding of what it will take to meet our goals. Progress toward these goals can be found in our annual Environmental Sustainability Report.

Intellectual Property
We protect our intellectual property investments in a variety of ways. We work actively in the U.S. and internationally to ensure the enforcement of copyright, patent, trademark, trade secret, and other protections that apply to our software and hardware products, services, business plans, and branding. While we employ much of our internally-developed intellectual property in our products and services, we also engage in outbound licensing of specific patented technologies that are incorporated into licensees’ products. From time to time, we enter into broader cross-license agreements with other technology companies covering entire groups of patents. We may also purchase or license technology that we incorporate into our products and services. At times, we make select intellectual property broadly available at no or low cost to achieve a strategic objective, such as promoting industry standards, advancing interoperability, supporting societal and/or environmental efforts, or attracting and enabling our external development community. Our engagement with open source software also causes us to license our intellectual property rights broadly in certain situations.
While it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of our products and services, we believe, based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally can be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. We believe our continuing research and product development are not materially dependent on any single license or other agreement with a third-party relating to the development of our products. 
DISTRIBUTION, SALES, AND MARKETING 
Our customers include individual consumers, small and medium organizations, large global enterprises, public-sector institutions, service providers, application developers, and OEMs. We market and distribute our products and services through the following channels: direct, distributors and resellers, and OEMs. Our sales organization performs a variety of functions, including working directly with commercial enterprises and public-sector organizations worldwide to identify and meet their technology and digital transformation requirements; supporting system integrators, independent software vendors, and other partners who engage directly with our customers to perform sales, consulting, and fulfillment functions for our products and services; and managing OEM relationships.
Direct 
Many organizations that license our products and services transact directly with us through Enterprise Agreements and Enterprise Services contracts, with sales support from system integrators, independent software vendors, web agencies, and partners that advise organizations on licensing our products and services (“Enterprise Agreement Software Advisors” or “ESA”). Microsoft offers direct sales programs targeted to reach small, medium, and corporate customers, in addition to those offered through the reseller channel. A large network of partner advisors support many of these sales. 
We also sell commercial and consumer products and services directly to customers, such as cloud services, search, and gaming, through our digital marketplaces and online stores. Additionally, our Microsoft Experience Centers are designed to facilitate deeper engagement with our partners and customers across industries. 
Distributors and Resellers 
Organizations also license our products and services indirectly, primarily through licensing solution partners (“LSP”), distributors, value-added resellers (“VAR”), and retailers. Although each type of reselling partner may reach organizations of all sizes, LSPs are primarily engaged with large organizations, distributors resell primarily to VARs, and VARs typically reach small and medium organizations. ESAs are also typically authorized as LSPs and operate as resellers for our other volume licensing programs. Microsoft Cloud Solution Provider is our main partner program for reselling cloud services. 
We distribute our retail packaged products primarily through independent non-exclusive distributors, authorized replicators, resellers, and retail outlets. Individual consumers obtain these products primarily through retail outlets. We distribute our devices through third-party retailers. We have a network of field sales representatives and field support personnel that solicit orders from distributors and resellers and provide product training and sales support. 
Our Dynamics business solutions are also licensed to enterprises through a global network of channel partners providing vertical solutions and specialized services.

We publish a variety of reports and resources related to our Corporate Social Responsibility programs and progress on our Reports Hub website, www.microsoft.com/corporate-responsibility/reports-hub, including reports on responsible AI, sustainability, responsible sourcing, accessibility, digital trust, and public policy engagement. 
The information found on these websites is not part of, or incorporated by reference into, this or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the SEC. In addition to these channels, we use social media to communicate to the public. It is possible that the information we post on social media could be deemed to be material to investors. We encourage investors, the media, and others interested in Microsoft to review the information we post on the social media channels listed on our Investor Relations website.

Issues in the development, deployment, and use of AI may result in reputational or competitive harm or liability. We are building AI into many of our offerings, including our productivity services, and we are also making AI available for our customers to use in solutions that they build. This AI may be developed by Microsoft or others, including our strategic partner, OpenAI. We expect these elements of our business to grow. We envision a future in which AI operating in devices, applications, and the cloud helps our customers be more productive in their work and personal lives. As with many innovations, AI presents risks and challenges that could affect its adoption, and therefore our business. AI algorithms or training methodologies may be flawed. Datasets may be overbroad, insufficient, or contain biased or inaccurate information. Content generated by AI systems may be offensive, illegal, inaccurate, or otherwise harmful. Ineffective or inadequate AI development or deployment practices by Microsoft or others could result in incidents that impair the acceptance of AI solutions, cause harm to individuals, customers, or society, or result in our products and services not working as intended. Human review of certain inputs and outputs may be required, including for agentic AI systems that can take actions autonomously. Our implementation of AI systems could result in legal liability, regulatory action, brand, reputational, or competitive harm, or other adverse impacts. These risks may stem from issues related to intellectual property, data privacy, and other claims associated with AI training and outputs. They are further compounded by the evolving regulatory landscape, with new laws emerging globally, including the European Union (“EU”). Some AI scenarios present ethical issues or may have broad impacts on society. There is also rising divergence globally in how to address these issues and impacts, with the result that we will need to navigate a web of different tensions across geographies. Finally, if we enable or offer AI solutions that have unintended consequences, unintended usage or customization by our customers and partners, are contrary to our responsible AI policies and practices, or are otherwise controversial because of the impact on human rights, privacy, employment, or other social, economic, or political issues, our reputation, competitive position, business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected.
OPERATIONAL RISKS
We may have excessive outages, data losses, and disruptions of our online services if we fail to maintain an adequate operations infrastructure. Our increasing user traffic, growth in services, and the complexity of our products and services demand more computing power. We spend substantial amounts to build, purchase, or lease datacenters and equipment and to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle more traffic on our websites and in our datacenters. Our datacenters depend on the availability of permitted and buildable land, predictable energy, networking supplies, and servers, including graphics processing units and other components. The cost or availability of these dependencies could be adversely affected by a variety of factors, including the transition to a clean energy economy, local and regional environmental regulations, and geopolitical disruptions. These demands continue to increase as we introduce new products and services and support the growth and the augmentation of existing services, including through the incorporation of AI features and/or functionality. We are rapidly growing our business of providing a platform and back-end hosting for services provided by third parties to their end users. Maintaining, securing, and expanding this infrastructure is expensive and complex, and requires development of principles for datacenter builds in geographies with higher safety and reliability risks. It requires that we maintain an Internet connectivity infrastructure and storage and compute capacity that is robust and reliable within competitive and regulatory constraints that continue to evolve. Inefficiencies or operational failures, including temporary or permanent loss of customer data, outages, insufficient Internet connectivity, insufficient or unavailable power or water supply, or inadequate storage and compute capacity could diminish the quality of our products, services, and user experience, resulting in contractual liability, claims by customers and other third parties, regulatory actions, damage to our reputation, and loss of current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, each of which could adversely affect our business, operations, financial condition, and results of operations.
We may experience supply or quality problems. There are limited suppliers for certain device and datacenter components. We continue to identify and evaluate opportunities to expand our datacenter locations and increase our server capacity to meet the evolving needs of our customers, particularly given the growing demand for AI services. Capacity available to us may be affected as competitors use some of the same suppliers and materials for hardware components. If components are delayed or become unavailable, whether because of supplier capacity constraint, industry shortages, legal or regulatory changes that restrict supply sources, or other reasons, we may not obtain timely replacement supplies, resulting in reduced sales or inadequate datacenter capacity to support the delivery and continued development of our products and services. Component shortages, excess or obsolete inventory, or price reductions resulting in inventory adjustments may increase our cost of revenue. Datacenter servers, Xbox consoles, Surface devices, and other hardware are assembled in Asia and other geographies that may be subject to disruptions in the supply chain, resulting in shortages which could adversely affect our business, operations, financial condition, and results of operations.

•Environmental, Social, and Governance: Laws, regulations, and policies relating to environmental, social, and governance matters are being developed and formalized in Europe, the U.S., and elsewhere, which may include greenhouse gas emissions and energy usage caps, as well as specific, target-driven environmental, social, and governance frameworks and disclosure requirements. In addition, in 2020 we announced goals to become carbon negative, water positive, and zero waste by 2030. Any failure or perceived failure to meet our sustainability goals, or to meet various sustainability regulatory requirements, could result in claims and lawsuits, regulatory actions, penalties, or damage to our reputation, each of which could adversely affect our business, operations, financial condition, and results of operations.

Source code, the detailed program commands for our operating systems and other software programs, is critical to our business. If our source code leaks, we might lose future trade secret protection for that code. It may then become easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying functionality, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Unauthorized access to or disclosure of source code or other intellectual property also increases the security risks described elsewhere in these risk factors.
Third parties may claim that we infringe their intellectual property. From time to time, others claim we infringe their intellectual property rights, including current copyright infringement and other claims arising from AI training and output. To resolve these claims, we may enter into royalty-bearing data access or licensing agreements on terms that are less favorable than currently available, stop selling or redesign affected products or services, or pay damages to satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers. Adverse outcomes could also include monetary damages or injunctive relief that may limit or prevent importing, marketing, and selling our products or services that have infringing technologies. We have paid significant amounts to settle claims related to the use of technology and intellectual property rights and to procure intellectual property rights as part of our strategy to manage this risk, and may continue to do so, which could adversely affect our results of operations.
GENERAL RISKS
If our reputation or our brands are damaged, our business and results of operations may be harmed. Our reputation and brands are globally recognized and are important to our business. Our reputation and brands affect our ability to attract and retain consumer, business, and public-sector customers. There are numerous ways our reputation or brands could be damaged. These include product safety or quality issues, our environmental impact and sustainability, supply chain practices, or human rights record. We may experience backlash from customers, government entities, advocacy groups, employees, and other stakeholders that disagree with our product offering decisions, public policy positions, or corporate philanthropic initiatives. Damage to our reputation or our brands may occur from, among other things: 
•The introduction of new features, products, services, or terms of service that customers, users, or partners do not like.