Company: NextEra Energy, Inc.
Ticker: NEE
Filing: 10-K Annual Report
Section: Item 1A - Risk Factors (Climate-Related Excerpts)
Filing Date: 2026-02-13
Source: SEC EDGAR (CIK: 0000753308)
---
NEE is one of the largest electric power and energy infrastructure companies in North America. As of December 31, 2025, NEE had approximately 80 gigawatts of net generation and storage capacity from a diverse portfolio of assets, primarily including natural gas, wind, solar and nuclear generation facilities and battery storage facilities. NEE has two principal businesses, FPL and NEER. FPL is the largest electric utility in Florida and the U.S. FPL’s strategic focus is centered on investing in generation, storage, transmission and distribution facilities to deliver on its value proposition of keeping customer bills low and delivering high reliability, outstanding customer service and energy from diverse generation sources for the benefit of its more than six million customer accounts. NEER is one of the largest energy infrastructure developers in the U.S. NEER’s strategic focus is centered on the development, construction and operation of long-term contracted generation facilities, including renewables, nuclear and natural gas, as well as battery storage facilities. NEER also builds and owns regulated electric and gas transmission assets, is a leading gas and power supplier, and delivers integrated energy and technology solutions to utilities and businesses across the U.S.

FPL's Energy Marketing & Trading division (EMT) supports the operation of FPL's generation fleet by procuring and managing fuel supplies and related energy commodities, including renewable energy credits (RECs). EMT sources natural gas, oil and low sulfur diesel from a diverse set of suppliers and geographic markets. FPL sells excess fuel and electricity when available and also uses derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options and forwards) to manage the physical and financial risks inherent in the purchase and sale of fuel and electricity. The results of EMT's activities are primarily passed through to customers in the fuel or capacity clauses, and beginning in 2026, certain amounts will be recognized in base rates. See Management's Discussion – Energy Marketing and Trading and Market Risk Sensitivity and Note 3.

•the NRC, which has jurisdiction over the operation of nuclear power plants through the issuance of operating licenses, rules, regulations and orders; and
•the EPA, which has the responsibility to maintain and enforce national standards under a variety of environmental laws, and in some cases delegates authority to state agencies. The EPA also works with industries and all levels of government, including federal and state governments, in a wide variety of voluntary pollution prevention programs and energy conservation efforts.

In February 2026, the Office of Public Counsel, Floridians Against Increased Rates, Inc. and, as a group, Florida Rising, Inc., Environmental Confederation of Southwest Florida, Inc. and League of United Latin American Citizens of Florida filed a joint motion for reconsideration and a joint request for oral argument challenging the FPSC's final order approving the 2025 rate agreement. FPL has opposed the motion and the request for oral argument.

•Fuel – primarily fuel costs, the most significant of the cost recovery clauses in terms of operating revenues (see Note 1 – Rate Regulation);
•Storm Protection Plan – costs associated with an FPSC-approved transmission and distribution storm protection plan, substantially all of which are costs for hardening overhead transmission and distribution lines, undergrounding of certain distribution lines and vegetation management;
•Capacity – primarily certain costs associated with the acquisition and retirement of an electric generation facility (see Note 1 – Rate Regulation) and capacity payments related to PPAs; 
•Energy Conservation – costs associated with implementing energy conservation programs; and
•Environmental – certain costs of complying with federal, state and local environmental regulations enacted after April 1993 and costs associated with certain of FPL's solar facilities placed in service prior to 2016.

FPL Environmental Regulation

FPL is subject to environmental laws and regulations as described in the NEE Environmental Matters section below. FPL expects to seek recovery through the environmental clause for compliance costs associated with any new environmental laws and regulations.

The NEER segment owns, develops, constructs, manages and operates generation facilities, including renewables, nuclear and natural gas, as well as battery storage facilities in wholesale energy markets in the U.S. and Canada. NEER, with approximately 37,505 MW of total net generating capacity as of December 31, 2025, is one of the largest wholesale generators of electric power in the U.S., including approximately 37,145 MW of net generating capacity across 44 states and 360 MW of net generating capacity in 4 Canadian provinces. As of December 31, 2025, NEER operates facilities, in which it has partial or full ownership interests, with a total generating capacity of approximately 45,680 MW. In addition, NEER, a world leader in battery storage based on 2025 MW of net storage capacity, develops and constructs battery storage projects, that either are integrated with its generation projects to enhance its ability to meet customers' firm capacity needs, or operate as standalone facilities. NEER primarily sells its capacity and/or energy output through long-term power sales and battery storage tolling agreements with utilities, retail electricity providers, power cooperatives, municipal electric providers and commercial and industrial customers.

As of December 31, 2025, NEER’s portfolio included natural gas generation facilities with a net generating capacity of approximately 1,584 MW. NEER's portfolio also included assets and investments in other businesses with a clean energy focus, such as renewable fuels. NextEra Energy Resources owns, or has a partial ownership interest in, a portfolio of 29 biogas projects, eight of which are operating renewable natural gas facilities and the others are primarily operating landfill gas-to-electric facilities.

In addition, the 30% ITC, subject to a phase-down in 2034 and 2035, applies to energy storage projects placed in service after 2022 that begin construction by December 31, 2033 (no eligibility for projects that begin construction after 2035), and to certain property with respect to renewable natural gas facilities (including gas upgrading equipment) placed in service after 2022 that begin construction by December 31, 2024. These projects and property are subject to the same labor requirements and credit enhancements applicable to wind and solar facilities (discussed above).

Other countries, including Canada, provide for incentives like feed-in-tariffs for renewable energy projects. The feed-in-tariffs promote renewable energy investments by offering long-term contracts to renewable energy producers, typically based on the cost of generation of each technology.

Certain facilities within the NEER wind and solar generation portfolio produce RECs and other environmental attributes which are typically sold along with the energy from the plants under long-term contracts, or may be sold separately from wind and solar generation not sold under long-term contracts. The purchasing party is solely entitled to the reporting rights and ownership of the environmental attributes.

As of December 31, 2025, essentially all of NEER's generation facilities located in the U.S. have received exempt wholesale generator status as defined under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005. Exempt wholesale generators own or operate a facility exclusively to sell electricity to wholesale customers. They are barred from selling electricity directly to retail customers. While projects with exempt wholesale generator status are exempt from various restrictions, each project must still comply with other federal, state and local laws, including, but not limited to, those regarding siting, construction, operation, licensing, pollution abatement and other environmental laws.

Additionally, most of the NEER facilities located in the U.S. are subject to FERC regulations and market rules and the NERC's mandatory reliability standards. All of NEER's facilities are subject to environmental laws and the EPA's environmental regulations, and its nuclear facilities are also subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC. See FPL – FPL Regulation for additional discussion of FERC, NERC, NRC and EPA regulations. Rates of NEER's rate-regulated electric transmission business are set by regulatory bodies as noted in Operations – Regulated Operations – Rate-Regulated Electric Transmission. With the exception of facilities located in ERCOT, the FERC has jurisdiction over various aspects of NEER's business in the continental U.S., including the oversight and investigation of competitive wholesale energy markets, regulation of the interstate transmission of electricity, regulation of the transmission and sale of natural gas, and oversight of environmental matters related to natural gas projects and major electricity policy initiatives. The PUCT has jurisdiction, including the regulation of rates and services, oversight of competitive markets, and enforcement of statutes and rules, over NEER facilities located in ERCOT. In addition, certain of NEER's sales to retail customers are subject to consumer protection laws and other regulations related to consumer activities.

Certain entities within the NEER segment and their affiliates are also subject to federal and provincial or regional regulations in Canada related to energy operations, energy markets and environmental standards. In Canada, activities related to owning and operating wind and solar projects and participating in wholesale and retail energy markets are regulated at the provincial level. In Ontario, for example, electric generation facilities must be licensed by the OEB and may also be required to complete registrations and maintain market participant status with the IESO, in which case they must agree to be bound by and comply with the provisions of the market rules for the Ontario electricity market as well as the mandatory reliability standards of the NERC.

In addition, NEER is subject to environmental laws and regulations as described in the NEE Environmental Matters section below. In order to better anticipate potential regulatory changes, NEER continues to actively monitor and participate in regional market stakeholder processes and other forums where changes to existing rules for the interconnection of renewable energy resources and the purchase and sale of energy commodities are under consideration.

NEE ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

NEE and its subsidiaries, including FPL, are subject to environmental laws and regulations, including extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to, among others, air quality, water quality and usage, waste management, wildlife protection and historical resources, for the siting, construction and ongoing operations of their facilities. The environmental laws in the U.S., including, among others, the Endangered Species Act (ESA), the Migratory Bird Treaty Act, and the Bald and Golden Eagle Protection Act (BGEPA), provide for the protection of numerous species, including endangered species and/or their habitats, migratory birds, bats and eagles. The environmental laws in Canada, including, among others, the Species at Risk Act, provide for the recovery of wildlife species that are endangered or threatened and the management of species of special concern. Complying with these environmental laws and regulations could result in, among other things, changes in the design and operation of, and additional costs associated with, existing facilities and changes or delays in the location, design, construction and operation of new facilities. Failure to comply could result in fines, penalties, criminal sanctions or injunctions. NEE's rate-regulated subsidiaries expect to seek recovery for compliance costs associated with any new environmental laws and regulations, which recovery for FPL would be through the environmental clause.

Mark Lemasney50Executive Vice President, Power Generation Division of NEE
Executive Vice President, Power Generation Division of FPLJanuary 1, 2023
James M. May49Treasurer and Assistant Secretary of NEE
Treasurer of FPL
May 22, 2025
Armando Pimentel, Jr.63Chief Executive Officer of FPL
February 15, 2023
Ronald R. Reagan57Executive Vice President, Engineering, Construction and Integrated Supply Chain of NEE 
Vice President, Engineering and Construction of FPLJanuary 1, 2020
March 1, 2019
Charles E. Sieving53Executive Vice President, Chief Legal, Environmental and Federal Regulatory Affairs Officer of NEE
Executive Vice President of FPL
May 18, 2023
January 1, 2009

NEE's and FPL's business could be materially adversely affected by a variety of legal activity, such as: 1) the adoption of new or revised laws, such as international trade laws, regulations and interpretations; 2) constitutional ballot or regulatory initiatives, such as those seeking deregulation or restructuring of the energy industry; 3) new or revised regulations, such as those affecting the commodities trading and derivatives markets, emissions, water consumption, water discharges, wetlands, gas and oil infrastructure operations, and environmental and other permitting requirements for energy infrastructure projects; 4) actions taken, or not taken, by government agencies as a result of executive orders, such as failing to issue, delaying the issuance of, or increasing the requirements necessary to obtain approvals, rights-of-way, permits, determinations, leases or loans related to wind or other clean energy projects; and 5) changes in the way government interprets or applies laws, regulations and orders. Changes in the nature of the regulation of NEE's and FPL's business through this type or other types of legal activity, such as the repeal, revocation or reversal of existing laws, regulations or actions, could have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. NEE and FPL are unable to predict future legislative, regulatory or executive action or inaction, including through constitutional ballot initiatives or changed government interpretations or applications, although any such changes may increase costs, the challenges associated with developing and operating clean and other energy infrastructure projects, and competitive pressures on NEE and FPL, which could have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.

NEE and FPL are subject to numerous environmental laws, regulations and other standards that may result in capital expenditures, increased operating costs and various liabilities, and may require NEE and FPL to limit or eliminate certain operations.

NEE and FPL are subject to domestic environmental laws, regulations and other standards, including, but not limited to, extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality and usage, soil quality, greenhouse gas emissions, waste management, hazardous wastes, marine, avian, bat and other wildlife mortality and habitat protection, historical artifact preservation, natural resources, health (including, but not limited to, electric and magnetic fields from power lines and substations), safety, fire prevention and RPS, that could, among other things, prevent or delay the development of electric generation, storage, transmission and distribution facilities, gas transportation, or other development projects, restrict or enjoin the output of some existing facilities, limit the availability and use of some fuels required for the production of electricity, require additional pollution control and fire prevention equipment, and otherwise increase costs, increase capital expenditures and limit or eliminate certain operations. Certain subsidiaries of NEE are also subject to foreign environmental laws, regulations and other standards and, as such, are subject to similar risks.