Company: Toyota Motor Corporation
Ticker: TM
Filing: 20-F Annual Report
Section: Item 1A - Risk Factors (Climate-Related Excerpts)
Filing Date: 2025-06-18
Source: SEC EDGAR (CIK: 0001094517)
---
bility to timely develop and achieve market acceptance of new products that meet customer demand; 
 (ix) any damage to Toyota’s brand image; 
 (x) Toyota’s reliance on various suppliers for the provision of supplies; 
 (xi) increases in prices of raw materials; 
 (xii) Toyota’s reliance on various digital and information technologies, as well as information security; 
 (xiii) fuel shortages or interruptions in electricity, transportation systems, labor strikes, work stoppages or other interruptions to, or difficulties in, the employment of labor in the major markets where Toyota purchases materials, components and supplies for the production of its products or where its products are produced, distributed or sold; 
 (xiv) the impact of natural calamities, epidemics, political and economic instability, fuel shortages or interruptions in social infrastructure, wars, terrorism and labor strikes, including their negative effect on Toyota’s vehicle production and sales; 
 (xv) the impact of climate change and the transition towards a low-carbon economy; and 
 (xvi) the ability of Toyota to hire or retain sufficient human resources.

Toyota Motor Corporation has confirmed that since 2014 seven models, including some that have already been discontinued, were tested as part of such applications using methods that differed from government standards, and it reported this to the MLIT on May 31, 2024. In July 2024, Toyota Motor Corporation received a correction order from the MLIT regarding its model certification applications. Following on-site investigations, the MLIT indicated eight new cases involving seven vehicles that did not comply with the standards. In August 2024, Toyota Motor Corporation submitted a report on measures to prevent recurrence of such conduct to the MLIT. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — 4.B Business Overview — Selected Initiatives” for further discussion of these and related matters. 
 In addition, actual or perceived failures on the part of Toyota or its suppliers to contribute to sustainability or to meet certain sustainability-related goals or objectives, including those relating to climate change or the protection of human rights in Toyota’s supply chain, may also harm Toyota’s reputation. Any insufficient measures taken by Toyota, the Toyota Group or their suppliers to maintain and develop Toyota’s brand image and reputation may have an adverse effect on Toyota’s financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. 
 Toyota relies on suppliers for the provision of certain supplies including parts, components and raw materials. 
 Toyota purchases supplies including parts, components and raw materials from a number of external suppliers located around the world. For some supplies, Toyota relies on a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers, whose replacement with another supplier may be difficult. Inability to obtain supplies from a single or limited source supplier may result in difficulty obtaining supplies and may restrict Toyota’s ability to produce vehicles. Furthermore, even if Toyota were to rely on a large number of suppliers, firs

ies such as software development or cloud computing vendors, power shortages and outages, and utility failures or other catastrophic events like natural disasters. In particular, cyberattacks or other intentional malfeasance are increasing in terms of intensity, sophistication and frequency, and Toyota has been and expects to continue to be the subject of such attacks. Such attacks have, in some cases, and could again disrupt critical operations, disclose sensitive data, interfere with information services and driving assistance functions in Toyota’s vehicles, and/or give rise to legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties under applicable laws, which could have an adverse effect on Toyota’s brand image and its financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. Moreover, similar attacks on Toyota’s suppliers and business partners have had, and may in the future have, a similar negative impact on Toyota. 
 Toyota is exposed to risks associated with climate change, including the physical risks of climate change and risks from the transition to a lower-carbon economy. 
 Risks associated with climate change are subject to increasing societal, regulatory and political focus in Japan and globally. These risks include the physical risks of climate change and risks from the transition to a lower-carbon economy. 
 The physical risks of climate change include both acute, event-driven risks such as those relating to hurricanes, floods and tornadoes, as well as longer-term weather patterns and related effects, such as sustained higher temperatures, sea level rise, drought and increased wildfires. Despite Toyota’s contingency planning, in addition to large-scale disasters due to extreme weather conditions. The increase and intensification of severe weather events such as heat waves is expected to increase the risk of heat stroke and water shortages due to drought. Such severe weather events and other natural conditions have in the past harme

er conditions. The increase and intensification of severe weather events such as heat waves is expected to increase the risk of heat stroke and water shortages due to drought. Such severe weather events and other natural conditions have in the past harmed, and may in the future again harm, Toyota’s employees or its facilities and other assets, as well as those of Toyota’s suppliers and other business partners, thereby adversely affecting Toyota’s production, sales or other operational capacities. Large- scale disasters and other events may also adversely affect the financial condition of Toyota’s customers, and thereby demand for its products and services. 
 Transition risks are those attributable to regulatory, technological and market changes to address the mitigation of, or adaptation to, climate-related risks. For example, Toyota is subject to the risk of changes in customer demand for vehicles due to such factors as changes in laws, regulations and government policies relating to climate change, technological innovation to address climate change, and new entrants into the automobile industry that seek to capitalize on changing market dynamics. Changes in customer demand may pose ancillary risks and challenges, such as Toyota’s having to establish new, or enhance existing, supply networks in order to source the raw materials, parts and components necessary for it to manufacture the products then in demand at desired volumes and at competitive costs. Toyota may incur significant costs and expenses as a result of the materialization of such risks, or in its efforts to mitigate or adapt to such risks. Toyota’s inability to develop and offer products that meet customers’ preferences and demand in a timely manner could result in a lower market share and reduced sales revenues and margins, and may adversely affect Toyota’s financial condition, results of operations cash flows and prospects. For a further discussion of risks associated with climate change, see “Item 4.

significant costs and expenses as a result of the materialization of such risks, or in its efforts to mitigate or adapt to such risks. Toyota’s inability to develop and offer products that meet customers’ preferences and demand in a timely manner could result in a lower market share and reduced sales revenues and margins, and may adversely affect Toyota’s financial condition, results of operations cash flows and prospects. For a further discussion of risks associated with climate change, see “Item 4. Information on the Company — 4B. Business Overview — Climate Change-related Disclosures.” 
 Furthermore, Toyota has published disclosures on climate-change related matters relating to its business and its partners. Such disclosures include forward-looking statements based on Toyota’s expectations and

assumptions, involving substantial discretion and forecasts about costs and future circumstances, which may prove to be incorrect. In addition, Toyota’s initiatives relating to climate change may not have the intended results, and estimates concerning the timing and cost of implementing, and ability to meet, stated goals are subject to risks and uncertainties. As a result, Toyota may not be able to meet its goals, including those set forth in this annual report, on expected timing or within expected costs. 
 In particular, progress toward achieving Toyota’s climate-related targets requires significant investment of resources and management time, as well as further improvement of compliance and risk management systems, internal controls and other internal procedures. Toyota’s ability to achieve its climate-related goals, which are to be pursued over the long-term and are inherently aspirational, is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of Toyota’s control, such as changes in environmental and energy regulation and policy, the pace of technological change and innovation, and the actions of Toyota’s customers and competitors. Any

ta, Nevada, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, Oregon, Rhode Island, Vermont, Virginia and Washington) have adopted California’s ZEV program. Delaware and Pennsylvania have implemented the LEV standards but not the same ZEV standards. Several states have also adopted California’s ACC II regulations, mandating that 100% of new light-duty vehicle sales be ZEVs by 2035. As of 2025, some of these states’ measures face reversal, with state governors for example citing concerns over government mandates on consumers. 
 Canadian Standards 
 Canada has finalized vehicle emission standards equivalent to the federal standards in the United States in October 2014, in response to the strengthening of the federal vehicle emission standards in the United States applicable to model years 2017 to 2025. Furthermore, certain Canadian provinces have enacted or are considering enacting their own ZEV regulations. On January 11, 2018, the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment and the Fight against Climate Change of the Province of Quebec issued regulations on zero-emission vehicles including BEVs, FCEVs and PHEVs, among others. In July 2020, the Governor of British Columbia approved their own ZEV regulations. More recently, Prince Edward Island and Nova Scotia have introduced ZEV incentive programs and signaled interest in aligning with national ZEV targets through supportive policies and infrastructure development, though they have not yet enacted binding ZEV sales mandates. Canada also adopted a more stringent fuel regulation in 2017, reducing the annual average sulfur concentration of gasoline to 10mg/kg and implementing a credit system to secure compliance. In December 2023, Environment and Climate Change Canada decided to regulate zero-emission vehicles from model years 2026 to 2035, requiring 100% zero emissions for light-duty passenger vehicles and light-duty trucks sold after 2035. 
 European Standards 
 In 2007, the European Parliament adopted more stringent emission st

e future based on the common recognition that “people” are our greatest asset. We have also confirmed specific initiatives to lead to speedy change, and labor and management worked together to promote such initiatives. 
 In the discussion held in March 2023 between labor and management, they confirmed to implement initiatives based upon three main pillars—diversity, growth, and contributions—designed to transform Toyota into a place where anyone can take on new challenges at any time, as many times as possible, without fear of mistakes, and promoted such initiatives. While continuing to promote initiatives based on the three pillars, in order to achieve change for the future in an era of rapid environmental change and an uncertain future, Toyota believes that it is also essential to take steps to “establish today how we will work in 10 years” with an eye to the “future.” To such ends, through discussions between labor and management in March 2024, we mapped out specific initiatives. 
 Climate Change-related Disclosures 
 Toyota has announced that, in response to climate change, it would address global-scale challenges to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050. In order to tackle these challenges, Toyota intends to respond quickly to changing demands, take into account the different energy conditions in each country and region around the world, and provide a variety of bespoke solutions that correspond to such country-specific and region-specific conditions.

In addition, Toyota has endorsed and signed on to the recommendations of the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (“TCFD”) in April 2019. Toyota has prepared the discussion below, which relates to Toyota’s climate change-related risks and opportunities, in light of such recommendations. Certain emissions reduction targets referenced below have been set by Toyota with reference to and in line with criteria established by the Science Based Targets Initiative (“SB

future, Toyota believes that it is also essential to take steps to “establish today how we will work in 10 years” with an eye to the “future.” To such ends, through discussions between labor and management in March 2024, we mapped out specific initiatives. 
 Climate Change-related Disclosures 
 Toyota has announced that, in response to climate change, it would address global-scale challenges to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050. In order to tackle these challenges, Toyota intends to respond quickly to changing demands, take into account the different energy conditions in each country and region around the world, and provide a variety of bespoke solutions that correspond to such country-specific and region-specific conditions.

In addition, Toyota has endorsed and signed on to the recommendations of the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (“TCFD”) in April 2019. Toyota has prepared the discussion below, which relates to Toyota’s climate change-related risks and opportunities, in light of such recommendations. Certain emissions reduction targets referenced below have been set by Toyota with reference to and in line with criteria established by the Science Based Targets Initiative (“SBTi”); however, such targets are not set forth in this annual report based upon the authority of or in reliance upon SBTi as experts with respect to such targets. 
 1. Governance 
 (a) The Board’s Oversight of Climate-related Risks and Opportunities 
 Toyota addresses climate-related issues at the Board of Directors’ meetings to ensure effective strategy formulation and implementation in line with the latest societal developments. The Board deliberates and oversees related strategy, major action plans, and business plans, and important climate-related matters are included in the Board’s agenda. 
 With oversight by the Board of Directors, the CN Strategy Subcommittee monitors progress toward qualitative and quantitative targets for a