Company: Unilever PLC
Ticker: UL
Filing: 20-F Annual Report
Section: Item 1A - Risk Factors (Climate-Related Excerpts)
Filing Date: 2026-03-12
Source: SEC EDGAR (CIK: 0000217410)
---
nor are they guarantees of future performance or outcomes. All forward-looking statements contained in this document are 
expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking 
statements.
Because these forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, a number of which may be beyond the Group’s control, there are 
important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Among other risks and 
uncertainties, the material or principal factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in 
this document are: Unilever’s global brands not meeting consumer preferences; Unilever’s ability to innovate and remain competitive; Unilever’s investment choices 
in its portfolio management; the effect of climate change on Unilever’s business; Unilever’s ability to find sustainable solutions to its plastic packaging; significant 
changes or deterioration in customer relationships; the recruitment and retention of talented employees; disruptions in Unilever’s supply chain and distribution; 
increases or volatility in the cost of raw materials and commodities; the production of safe and high-quality products; secure and reliable IT infrastructure; execution of 
acquisitions, divestitures and business transformation projects; economic and financial risks; social and political risks and natural disasters; failure to meet high 
and ethical standards; and managing regulatory, legal matters and practices with regard to the interpretation and application thereof and emerging and developing 
ESG reporting standards, including differences in implementation of climate and sustainability policies in the regions where the Group operates. Also see ’Our 
Principal Risks’ on pages 31 to 37 for addition

Climate and 
Nature

Tackling climate change-related physical 
and transitional risks and loss of nature is 
important to increase our resilience and future-
proof our business.
Climate change and nature loss are inextricably 
linked. Climate change is a key driver of 
biodiversity loss, and nature is a key tool in 
combating rising global temperatures and climate 
change impacts. The risks from climate and 
nature have the potential to affect supply security, 
cost structures and consumer demand, requiring 
continued investment in resilience and 
sustainable practices.
Physical risks from climate change, such as more 
frequent and severe extreme weather events, may 
disrupt our supply chain, manufacturing sites and 
distribution networks. Transition risks, including 
carbon pricing, 
land-use restrictions and regulations on 
GHG-intensive ingredients, could increase costs 
and limit operational flexibility.
Climate change, intensive agriculture and 
land conversion are accelerating ecosystem 
degradation, reducing

ty position and borrowing facilities, as described on pages 
1 to 29. In addition, we describe in notes 15 to 18, on pages 161 to 
176, the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing 
its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its 
financial instruments and hedging activities, and its exposures to credit 
and liquidity risk. Unilever announced the demerger of the Ice Cream 
business, which completed in December 2025. The Directors have 
considered the ability of the remaining Group to continue in its current 
form to remain viable. 
ASSESSMENT
In order to report on the long-term viability of the Group, the Directors 
reviewed the overall funding capacity and headroom available to 
withstand severe events and carried out a robust assessment of the 
principal risks facing the Group, 
including those that would threaten its business model, future 
performance, solvency or liquidity. This includes consideration 
of external factors such as the impact of climate change, changing 
consumer preferences and a slowdown in economic growth.
We have also reviewed the mitigating factors in respect of each 
principal risk. The risks and mitigating factors are summarised on 
pages 32 to 37.
The viability assessment has three parts:
■First, the Directors considered the period over which they have a 
reasonable expectation that the Group will continue to operate and 
meet its liabilities;
■Second, they considered the current debt facilities and debt 
headroom over the viability period, assuming that any debt maturing 
can be re-financed at commercially acceptable terms; and
■Third, they considered the potential impact of severe but plausible 
scenarios over this period:
■assessing scenarios for each individual principal risk, and their 
impact on profits and cash; and
■assessing scenarios that involve more than one principal risk, 
including the following multi-risk scenarios:

Climate change-related extreme weather 
events impacting crop yield and failure 
to capitalise on changing consumer 
perceptions and demands.

■Climate and nature
■Business operations
■Consumer and channel

place, ensuring that both Unilever’s direct employees 
and those working within the Company’s value chain comply with the 
expected standards of conduct.
The Committee’s discussions are informed by the experience of the 
Unilever Leadership Executive, which is accountable for driving 
responsible and sustainable growth through Unilever’s operations, 
Business Groups, value chain and brands. The Chief R&D Officer 
leads on behalf of management, with further senior leaders invited to 
the Committee as relevant to share their perspectives and insights on 
key issues, challenges and external developments.
The Committee’s terms of reference are set out at: www.unilever.com/
investors/corporate-governance. 
HOW THE COMMITTEE HAS DISCHARGED ITS 
RESPONSIBILITIES 
In 2025, the Committee’s principal activities were as follows:
Navigating a changing external landscape 
As a business, we continue to navigate growing economic, 
environmental and social challenges. Many of the challenges, such as 
climate change, nature degradation and plastic pollution, are 
compounded by growing geopolitical divides and economic difficulties. At 
the same time, there is an increase in the nature and complexity of 
litigation matters requiring the utmost diligence and awareness of 
emerging risks, and capacity to respond. 
Overseeing Code of Business Principles compliance
Our consumers trust us to do business with integrity. Maintaining our 
reputation and continued business success requires the highest 
standards of behaviour and compliance. The Code and associated 
Code Policies set out the ethical standards of conduct expected of all 
Unilever employees. Any breach is classified as a legal and 
compliance risk to the business (see page 37). 
The Corporate Responsibility Committee oversees the Code and Code 
Policies, including those related to anti-corruption and bribery, ensuring 
they remain fit for purpose and are appropriately applied, including the 
mechanisms for implementing the Code

bution in 
December 2025, following the Board’s formal approval of the demerger. At that 
point, the distribution was considered highly probable and the internal separation 
of the Ice Cream territories had been completed, meaning the business was 
available for distribution in its current condition. As a former reportable segment 
and major line of business, all Ice Cream activities have been treated as 
discontinued operations in both current and comparative periods. 
In line with IFRS 5, we have disclosed separately in the income statement, 
statement of comprehensive income and cash flow statement results arising from 
continuing and discontinued operations. 2023 and 2024 comparatives have been 
re-presented on the same basis. There has been no change to the 2023 and 
2024 balance sheet related amounts, including where balance sheet line item 
reconciliations have been disclosed within the notes. Further details and a 
breakdown of discontinued operations are provided in note 21. 
CLIMATE CHANGE
In preparing these consolidated financial statements, we have considered the 
impact of both physical and transition climate change risks, and any planned 
mitigations, on the current valuation of our assets and liabilities. We have 
identified risks and opportunities that could in the future be material to our 
business, for example carbon tax or land use regulations. Where possible we 
have performed quantitative assessments of these risks and opportunities based 
on various scenarios for the years 2030, 2039 and 2050. These potential 
financial impacts are based on high-level quantitative assessments and do not 
include any assumptions on the impact of actions that we would undertake to 
mitigate against these climate-related risks. Therefore, these quantifications do 
not represent any type of financial forecast and thus are not directly incorporated 
into any projections of long-term cash flows.
To determine if there is a material impact on the financial reporting j

tifications do 
not represent any type of financial forecast and thus are not directly incorporated 
into any projections of long-term cash flows.
To determine if there is a material impact on the financial reporting judgements and 
estimates as of the reporting period, we have reviewed each balance sheet line item 
and identified those line items that have the potential to be significantly impacted by 
climate-related risks and our plans to mitigate against these risks. Those line items 
that have the potential to be significantly impacted have then been reviewed in detail 
to confirm:
■that the growth rates and projected cash flows, used in assessing whether our 
goodwill and indefinite-life intangibles are impaired, are consistent with our climate-
related risk assumptions and the actions we are taking to mitigate against those 
risks; and
■that the useful lives of our property, plant and equipment are appropriate given the 
potential physical and obsolescence risks associated with climate change and the 
actions we are taking to mitigate against those risks. 
In addition, it should be noted that climate-related risks could affect the financial 
position of our defined benefit pension plan assets. The Trustees operate 
diversified investment strategies and are continuously assessing investment 
risks. The Trustees consider climate risk as one of the key investment risks and 
are continually evolving their investments to lower the overall climate risk.
From our review of key financial statement areas, including impairment 
assessments, cash flow forecasts and asset valuations, we have not identified 
any material impact on financial reporting judgements or estimates as at 31 
December 2025. Based on the Group’s overall financial position, its exposure to 
principal risks which include climate change, and its future business forecasts, 
the Group is well placed to manage these risks and meet its obligations. 
Consequently, we have not identified any significant imp

9. GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS continued
KEY ASSUMPTIONS
In performing our annual impairment testing, the recoverable amount of each CGU has been calculated based on its value in use, estimated as the present value of 
projected future cash flows. Each GCGU’s value in use is based on the aggregated value in use of the CGUs grouped under the respective GCGU.
Projected cash flows include specific estimates for one-year at the CGU level. The growth rates and operating margins applied for the one‑year period are based on 
the Group’s strategic plan, which reflects expected economic conditions and incorporates the potential future impact of climate change. The CGU‑specific one‑year 
cash flows are taken directly from the Group's strategic plan, which includes both the initiatives underway to reduce carbon emissions in line with our CTAP and 
management’s assessment of the potential impact of climate change on operations. The growth rates used for GCGUs and significant CGUs are set out below:
For the year 2025

nted to Fernando Fernandez and Srinivas Phatak on 10 March 
2023.
Performance outcomes for the 2023–2025 PSP are shown in the ’At a glance’ section on page 84. Further detail on the outcome for the SPI 
measure is below. 
Outcome of SPI for 2023–2025 PSP: 
The SPI is an assessment of the business’s sustainability performance, made jointly by the Corporate Responsibility Committee (CRC) and the 
Committee, that captures quantitative and qualitative elements. The SPI is assessed against four metrics aligned to priority areas. For 2025, the 
CRC and the Committee agreed on an in-year SPI outcome taking into account performance in the areas of climate, nature, plastics and livelihoods. 
For the 2023–2025 PSP, the SPI outcome is calculated by taking a simple average of the SPI outcomes across the three years of the performance 
period. The in-year and 2023–2025 SPI outcomes are set out below.

Climate(c)

The percentage change in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from energy and 
refrigerant use in our operations in the given period in 2025, in comparison to the 
same period in 2015.

15% on Sustainability Progress Index (SPI):(e)

■Climate: percentage change in greenhouse gas emissions from energy 
and refrigerant use in operations vs 2015

where we can deliver the most impact. The Corporate Responsibility Committee and Remuneration 
Committee agreed four SPI targets to assess progress towards a number of related sustainability goals (see page 
30 for more details). These targets support Unilever’s overall strategy (see page 5) and address principal risks such 
as climate and nature, plastic packaging and business operations (see pages 33 to 34). SPI targets are set over a 
three-year period and disclosed prospectively.

Unilever Sustainability Progress Index (SPI)(b)

Climate: The percentage change in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from energy and refrigerant use in our operations 
in the given period in the reporting year, in comparison to the same period in 2015.(c)