Company: Exxon Mobil Corporation
Ticker: XOM
Filing: 10-K Annual Report
Section: Item 1A - Risk Factors (Climate-Related Excerpts)
Filing Date: 2026-02-18
Source: SEC EDGAR (CIK: 0000034088)
---
Exxon Mobil Corporation was incorporated in the State of New Jersey in 1882. Divisions and affiliated companies of ExxonMobil operate or market products in the United States and most other countries of the world. Our principal business involves exploration for, and production of, crude oil and natural gas; manufacture, trade, transport and sale of crude oil, natural gas, petroleum products, petrochemicals, and a wide variety of specialty products; and pursuit of lower-emission and other new business opportunities, including carbon capture and storage, hydrogen and ammonia, lower-emission fuels, ProxximaTM resin systems, carbon materials, low-carbon data centers, and lithium. Affiliates of ExxonMobil conduct extensive research programs in support of these businesses.
Exxon Mobil Corporation's divisions and affiliates have many names, including ExxonMobil, Exxon, Esso, Mobil or XTO. For convenience and simplicity, in this report the terms ExxonMobil, Exxon, Esso, Mobil, and XTO, as well as terms like Corporation, Company, our, we, and its, are sometimes used as abbreviated references to specific affiliates or groups of affiliates. The precise meaning depends on the context in question.
The energy and petrochemical industries are highly competitive, both within the industries and also with other industries in supplying the energy, fuel, and chemical needs of industrial and individual consumers. Certain industry participants, including ExxonMobil, are expanding the scope of investments in lower-emission energy and emission-reduction services and technologies. The Corporation competes with other firms in the sale or purchase of needed goods and services in many national and international markets and employs all methods of competition which are lawful and appropriate for such purposes.
Operating data and industry segment information for the Corporation are contained in the Financial Section of this report under the following: “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations: Business Results” and Note 3. Information on oil and gas reserves is contained in the “Oil and Gas Reserves” part of the “Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities” portion of the Financial Section of this report.
ExxonMobil has a long-standing commitment to the development of proprietary technology. We have a wide array of research programs designed to meet the needs identified in each of our businesses. ExxonMobil held over 8 thousand active patents worldwide at the end of 2025. Although technology is an important contributor to the overall operations and results of our Company, the profitability of each business segment is not dependent on any individual patent, trade secret, trademark, license, franchise, or concession.
ExxonMobil operates in a highly complex, competitive, and changing global energy business environment where decisions and risks play out over time horizons that are often decades in length. This long-term orientation underpins the Corporation's philosophy on talent development.
Talent development begins with recruiting exceptional candidates and continues with individually planned experiences and training designed to facilitate broad development and a deep understanding of our business across the business cycle. Our career-oriented approach to talent development results in strong retention and an average length of service of about 30 years for our career employees. Compensation, benefits, and workplace programs support the Corporation's talent management approach, and are designed to attract and retain employees for a career through compensation that is market competitive, long-term oriented, and highly differentiated by individual performance.
With over 59 percent of our global employees from outside the U.S. and more than 160 nationalities represented across the Company, we encourage and respect diversity of thought, ideas, and perspective from our workforce. We are focused on building an engaged, global workforce; grounded in meritocracy, we strive to have every employee reach their potential over a long-term career by providing unrivaled opportunities for personal and professional growth through impactful work meeting society's essential needs.
The number of regular employees was 58 thousand, 61 thousand, and 62 thousand at years ended 2025, 2024, and 2023, respectively. Regular employees are defined as active executive, management, professional, technical, administrative, and wage employees who work full time or part time for the Corporation and are covered by the Corporation’s benefit plans and programs.
As discussed in Item 1A in this report, compliance with existing and potential future government regulations, including taxes, environmental regulations, and other government regulations and policies that directly or indirectly affect the production and sale of our products, may have material effects on the capital expenditures, earnings, and competitive position of ExxonMobil. For additional information on the Corporation's worldwide environmental expenditures, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations: Environmental Matters" in the Financial Section of this report.
Information concerning the source and availability of raw materials used in the Corporation’s business, the extent of seasonality in the business, the possibility of renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts at the election of governments, and risks attendant to foreign operations may be found in Item 1A and Item 2 in this report.
1

ExxonMobil’s financial and operating results are subject to a variety of risks inherent in the global oil, gas, and petrochemical businesses and the pursuit of lower-emission and other new business opportunities. Many of these risk factors are not within the Company’s control and could adversely affect our business, our financial and operating results, or our financial condition. These risk factors include:
Supply and Demand
The oil, gas, and petrochemical businesses are fundamentally commodity businesses. This means ExxonMobil’s operations and earnings may be significantly affected by changes in oil, gas, and petrochemical prices and by changes in margins on refined products. Oil, gas, petrochemical, and product prices and margins in turn depend on local, regional, and global events or conditions that affect supply and demand for the relevant commodity or product. Any material decline in oil or natural gas prices could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations, results, financial condition, and proved reserves, especially in the Upstream segment. On the other hand, a material increase in oil or natural gas prices could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations and results, especially in the Energy Products, Chemical Products, and Specialty Products segments. Our pursuit of lower-emission and other new business opportunities, including carbon capture and storage, hydrogen and ammonia, lower-emission fuels, ProxximaTM resin systems, carbon materials, low-carbon data centers, and lithium also depends on the growth and development of markets for those products and services, including implementation of supportive and stable government policies and developments in existing and new technology to enable those products and services to be provided on a cost-effective basis at commercial scale. See “Climate Change and Energy Transition” in this Item 1A.
Economic conditions. The demand for energy and petrochemicals is generally linked closely with broad-based economic activities and levels of prosperity. The occurrence of economic downturns, recessions or other periods of low or negative economic growth will typically have a direct adverse impact on our results. Other factors that affect general economic conditions in the world or in a major region, such as changes in population growth rates or living standards, periods of civil unrest or armed hostilities, escalating geopolitical volatility, government regulation or austerity programs, national or regional trade tariffs, trade sanctions or trade controls, international monetary and currency exchange rate fluctuations, decoupling of economies, disruption, realignment, or breaking of current or historical trade or military alliances or global trade or supply chain networks, changes in international trade patterns or shipping routes, or a broader breakdown in global trade, security or public health, can also impact the supply and demand for energy and petrochemicals. Sovereign debt downgrades, defaults, extended government shutdowns, inability to access debt markets due to rating, banking, or legal constraints, liquidity crises, market bubbles and corrections, the breakup or restructuring of fiscal, monetary, or political systems such as the European Union, de-dollarization in global trade or the growth or use of alternative common currencies, and other events or conditions that impair the functioning of financial markets and institutions also pose risks to ExxonMobil, including risks to the safety of our financial assets and to the ability of our partners, suppliers, and customers to fulfill their commitments to ExxonMobil. Our future business, including earnings, cash flows, and financing needs, may also be affected by the occurrence, severity, pace, and rate of recovery of future public health epidemics or pandemics or other natural or human events beyond our control; the responsive actions taken by governments and others; and the resulting effects on regional and global markets and economies.
Other demand-related factors. Other factors that may affect the demand for oil, gas, petrochemicals or our other products, and therefore our results, include technological improvements in energy efficiency; seasonal weather patterns; increased competitiveness of, or government policy support for, alternative energy sources or potential substitutes for our products; changes in technology that alter fuel choices, such as technological advances in energy storage or other critical areas that make wind, solar, nuclear, or other alternatives more competitive for power generation; government actions to increase strategic reserves to enhance energy security; increased demand for artificial intelligence (AI), including the construction and expansion of AI data centers; changes in customer or consumer preferences for our products, including consumer demand for alternative-fueled or electric transportation or alternatives to plastic products; and broad-based changes in personal income levels. See also “Climate Change and Energy Transition” below.
2

Other supply-related factors. Commodity prices and margins also vary depending on a number of factors affecting supply. For example, increased supply from the development of new or previously inaccessible oil and gas supply sources and technologies to enhance recovery from existing sources tends to reduce commodity prices to the extent such supply increases are not offset by commensurate growth in demand. Similarly, increases in industry refining or petrochemical manufacturing capacity relative to demand tend to reduce margins on the affected products. World oil, gas, and petrochemical supply levels can also be affected by factors that reduce available supplies, such as the level of, and adherence by, participating countries to production quotas established by OPEC or OPEC+ and other agreements among sovereigns; government policies, including actions intended to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, that restrict oil and gas production or increase associated production, reporting or compliance costs; collective actions by non-governmental organizations and financial institutions to withhold funding or support from oil and gas producers; the occurrence of wars or hostile actions, including disruption of land or sea transportation routes; natural disasters; disruptions in competitors’ operations; and logistics constraints or unexpected unavailability of distribution channels that may disrupt supplies. There also may be new or emerging factors that could increase global oil, gas, and petrochemical supply levels in the short or long term, such as government policies and actions intended to boost or expand development of domestic or foreign oil and gas reserves or accelerate the pace of production reaching markets, including access to previously unavailable, sanctioned, or protected oil and gas resources or the availability or opening of new shipping routes. Dynamic and unpredictable world events may lead to new oil and gas opportunities becoming available or current opportunities becoming less available or unavailable, and such events may adversely affect our business and results. Technological change can also alter the relative costs for competitors to find, produce and refine oil and gas, and to manufacture petrochemicals.
Other market factors. ExxonMobil’s business results are also exposed to potential negative impacts due to changes in interest rates, inflation, currency exchange rates, changes in usage of the U.S. dollar in global trade, and other local or regional market conditions. In addition to direct potential impacts on our costs and revenues, market factors such as rates of inflation may indirectly impact our results to the extent such factors reduce general rates of economic growth and therefore energy demand, as discussed under “Economic conditions.” Market factors may also result in losses from commodity derivatives and other instruments we use to hedge price exposures or for commodity and treasury trading activities. Additional information regarding the potential future impact of market factors on our businesses is included or incorporated by reference under Item 7A in this report.
Government and Political Factors
ExxonMobil’s results can be adversely affected by political or regulatory developments affecting our businesses or operations.
Access limitations. A number of countries limit access to their oil and gas resources, including by restricting leasing, licensing, or permitting activities directly or indirectly through the influence on these processes by well-funded local or international groups opposing the development of these resources. They also may place resources off-limits from development altogether. Restrictions on production of oil and gas could increase to the extent governments view such measures as a viable approach for pursuing national and global energy, security, and climate policies. Restrictions on foreign investment in the oil and gas sector tend to increase in times of high commodity prices or when national governments may have less need for outside sources of private capital. Many countries also restrict the import or export of certain products based on point of origin, and such restrictions may increase during periods of escalating geopolitical or trade tensions.
Restrictions on doing business. ExxonMobil is subject to laws and sanctions imposed by the United States and by other jurisdictions where we do business that may prohibit ExxonMobil or its affiliates from doing business in certain countries or with certain counterparties or restrict or impede the kind of business that may be conducted, including acquiring and divesting certain assets or importing or exporting certain materials or products. Such restrictions may provide a competitive advantage to competitors who may not be subject to comparable restrictions.
Lack of legal certainty. Some countries in which we do, or seek to do, business lack well-developed legal systems, lack political or governmental stability, may be subject to regime changes, have not yet adopted clear legal frameworks, may be unable to maintain clear regulatory frameworks in the face of pressure on their systems from well-funded local or international groups opposing development of their resources, or may have evolving and unharmonized standards that vary or conflict across jurisdictions. Lack of legal certainty exposes us to increased risk of adverse or unpredictable actions by government officials, may reduce our ability to comply timely or cost-effectively with evolving standards or requirements, and also makes it more difficult for us to enforce our contracts. In some cases, these risks can be partially offset by agreements to arbitrate disputes in an international forum, but the adequacy of this remedy may still depend on the local legal system to enforce an award.
Regulatory and litigation risks. Even in countries with well-developed legal systems where ExxonMobil does business, we remain exposed to changes in law or interpretation or enforcement of settled law, including changes that result from concerted efforts to increase our legal exposure by groups opposed to the products we provide or international treaties and accords or changes by local jurisdictions encroaching on national regulatory frameworks or global issues or changes resulting from imposition of extraterritorial laws and regulations, and changes in government policy or priorities that could adversely affect our results, such as:
•increases or changes in taxes, duties, or government royalty rates, including retroactive claims, punitive taxes on oil, gas and petrochemical operations, windfall profit taxes, or global minimum taxes;
•price controls;
3